### **Overview** 

*Handler, Jerome S. and Annis Steiner, “Identifying Pictorial Images of Atalntic Slavery: Three Case Studies.”*

Handler and Steiner discuss the problems that come with illustrations taken from secondary works, most notably that they can be easily misinterpreted unless clear bibliographical information of the primary source is available. Handler and Steiner blame authors writing for a commercial market and general readership as most guilty of committing this crime, because they fail to pay adequate attention to the historical and bibliographic contexts of the illustrations used in their works, and as a result are possibly misinterpreting an original sketch for an artist’s imagined depiction of the event. The authors point to three examples to prove their point: the Narrative of an Expedition engraving that was not in fact an original drawing but instead derived from a photograph, Africans Thrown from a Slave Ship that was a scene imagined and not based on observation, and An Enslaved Brazilian with Face Mask and Neck Collar that is not in fact a portrait of one individual slave, but in fact a composite of different slaves observed by the French artist on his trip to Brazil. The authors uses these examples to prove their point: that too often embellished and modified versions of the original illustration that could have been imagined by the artists are used as sources of historical data to portray past event. It is important correctly bibliography and understand the context of illustrations, as well as to focus on the importance of authentic representations of historical scenes and events. 

*Morgan, Jennifer L. “ ‘Some Could Suckle over their Shoulder:’ Male Travelers, Female Bodies, and the Gendering of Racial Ideology, 1500-1770.”* 

Jennifer Morgan tracks the descriptions and depictions of African women in modern middle English literature and painting to understand the ideas of blackness and beauty of the time. Writers and artists of the time distinguished clear categories of whiteness and blackness when comparing women, seeing black women as unwomanly in a way because they combined the familiar and the unfamiliar, because they appeared as beautiful women who also had bestial, “other” qualities. She demonstrates throughout the article how racial and gender discourses are deeply saturated with each other, combining sentiments of desire and repulsion in one image: the Black female body. Morgan describes a varied mix of back female depictions in texts and art of the time, some emphasizing socio-sexual differences, others emphasizing the importance of the “savage other,” and others using the difference in skin color to also explain the lack of social institutions and niceties seen in Africa. The confused fusion of desire and repulsion throughout the article confuses the reader as it did artists and writers at the time, who admired the beautiful black pregnant figure while also appreciating her for her pain-free child bearing, underlining the racist and sexist notions of the other and savagery thriving at the time. 

*Sargen, Antwaun. “Interview: Kara Walker Decodes her New World Sphinx at Domino Sugar Factory.”* 

This review of the show and interview with the artist Kara Walker highlights the un-subtleness of the work as a whole: its scale, its message, its undertones, its powerful message, and its historical and contemporary significance. And Kara Walker is not at all a subtle artist: on the contrary, she evokes controversial thoughts on race, gender, and violence through her works. She mentions first reading about subtleties, the Medieval fashioning of sugar, and being struck by this “beautiful, poetic gesture.” She describes the Domino Sugar Factory covered in dripping molasses as “seductive” as she sees a molasses-sugar connection to slavery. Throughout the interview, she explains the work she did to ultimately create this public exhibition, from the research steps to the decision on sugar as the medium, to the inclusion of mammy in her work, and her future as an artist who is “capable of doing whatever the hell I want.” 

### **Reflection** 

This group of readings made me think a lot about the image of the black women historically and today in writing, art, and social media. It overlaps with readings from past weeks, when we discussed the portrayal of the black female figure in the media, and the desire for blacks on social media to outdo Lady Gaga in all of her extremes. It is interesting to understand how the black female has been understood and depicted historically and today through different media. Many of the concepts expressed through Walker’s work can be traced through the texts and illustrations described in Morgan and Handler and Steiner’s articles. 

### **Expand** 

The discussion of the beautiful but also pain-free childbearing Black woman immediately brought to mind Beyoncé’s 2017 Grammy performance when she looked like an absolutely goddess-like Black childbearing female. 
(https://www.thesun.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/nintchdbpict0003014373142.jpg?strip=all&w=655)

### **Comment**
To comment on Helen’s first question, I think it is hard to appreciate black visual art, and visual art in general, within a context of white/colonial institutions. After all, museums have many different departments and employees who specialize in certain types of art. Of course many of these institutions are run by white-dominant boards and directors, but the art itself isn’t white/colonial heavy. Institutions such as the National Museum of African American History and Culture in D.C. and the Reginald F. Lewis Museum in Baltimore are examples of black institutions, and they serve as an important step towards racial equality in the art world today. But in general, I think black and minority artists are well-regarded by art collectors and curators alike. 

### **Questions**
1.	Since the images Handler and Steiner describe are some of the few visual evidence we have of the time, how can we better archive and understand them today? What kinds of tools do we have access to now thanks to modern technology that we didn’t have before that can help us in these endeavors? 
2.	How can we understand Kara Walker’s work at the Domino Factory compared to her other silhouette works? 
3.	Morgan goes into thorough detail when describing the Black female figure in modern English literature, but what about the male? I can imagine that the black male figure was too described as savage, the other, and failing to fit in with white social understandings and norms. 
