**Twitter Module: Stop n Frisk Tally to Collect Instances of Police Brtuality**

Ellie Strauss, Team 3 Member

1.	The goal of the bot we created, Stop n Frisk Tally, is to collect stories and instances of Stop and Frisk, times when Black citizens are stopped by police officers for no particular reason. Stop and Frisk exists as a hugely controversial issue today, tied closely to #BlackLivesMatter and equal opportunity, race blind initiatives that have become increasingly prevalent in recent years. Our bot hopes to compile these racially charged instances to show the discriminatory underlining in society today. It is true that newspapers and magazines such as *New York Times*, *Washington Post*, *Politico*, *The Atlantic*, and *Baltimore Sun* have written extensive articles stating and analyzing the statistics behind Stop and Frisk in the United States, and why these uncalled for searches happen the way and frequency that they do. Trump in late 2016 said to Fox News and Lester Holt at NBC News that he wanted to institute nationwide “stop and frisk” policing practice to combat violent crime in America’s inner cities. He argued that it worked incredibly well in New York to lower crime rates, but Stop and Frisk is an extremely controversial policing practice, because it allows officers to commit acts of racial profiling. 
	
    So far in Black Code Studies, we have studied many forms of racial profiling in society: tracking Black twitter use and Antiblack and Misogynoir sentiments articulated on social media platforms, racial segregation and lack of necessary support for Black students in Universities, and Stingray tending to be used most regularly in Black minority dominant, low-income neighborhoods. Stingray can be effectively compared to Stop and Frisk practices, both relying on racial and low-income profiling in attempt to catch criminals. We were also inspired by BlackTwitterStorians, hoping to educate people on Black history who are not otherwise aware. Our bot hopes to collect stories of Stop and Frisk and police violence committed against Blacks, circumstances that happen all too often today. We want our bot to compile these stories that are shared and posted on a number of news, activist, blogs, and social media sites. Creating the capacity to view all of these instances in one flow of posts will allow us to demonstrate the ubiquity of these racially charged acts of unwarranted violence and questionings, and allow us to understand the sheer volume of these instances. This bot hopefully will bring attention to the issue. At first, our team discussed creating a bot that would compile videos of Stop and Frisk and police violence towards Black subjects, but we then realized that some families do not want these personal, painful videos to be shared and retweeted on social media. Even though videos of this kind can easily be found on instagram, snapchat, blogs, YouTube, and google video, we do not want to create a forum that might insult subjects and their families. So instead, we decided on compiling stories and instances on the topic. 
2.	We configured the bot to do this work by following #policebrutality. This twitter hashtag will likely compile many of the kinds of stories and coverage of the stories we hope to be collected on our bot. Had we the option to link other search phrases for our bot Stop n Frisk tally, we would have liked to include #racistpolice as well as #antiblackviolence. These stories of police brutality and Stop and Frisk will be addressed on many different kinds of twitter users’ accounts, and it would be great to be able to collect them all, such as Deray McKesson’s, Bmore United’s, and NAACP’s. Having never created a Twitter bot before, it was fascinating to understand the process behind it. I hope that our bot will collect the stories and posts we intend to collect throughout Spring Break, because this kind of live-stream archive of Stop and Frisk and police brutality instances in the United States and possibly around the world would be fascinating and extremely pertinent to address and understand the issue today. It is true that many citizens are aware of Stop and Frisk, but do not know the details and extent of violence behind it. A bot of this kind would incite awareness, and be the type of bot that we hope to be shared on Facebook and other social media platforms. 
3.	Our username for the bot is Stop n Frisk Tally. 
Team 3, Helen, Aaron, and Monica were involved in the creation and analysis of our bot, and I created the bot. 
