#**Twitter Assignment 1: Another Experience with a Popular Media Platform that Intrigues & Intimidate(d)(s) Me**
####Ellie Strauss 

##Stop and Write 1:
Before I could access my account, I had to create a username and password, provide my full name, and either a phone number or email through which Twitter could verify my account. These security protocols likely limit certain individuals from having access to such an open form of expression, maybe those with a criminal history or cyber abuse. I was encouraged to follow many Baltimore-based and focused accounts, such as 
WYPR, Dan Rodricks, Baltimore Magazine, Baltimore Brew, Justin Tucker and other Baltimore Ravens players, Baltimore Co Schools, Baltimore police, Orioles, and Under Armor, as well as non-Baltimore suggestions such as Jimmy Fallon and Rihanna. The twitter signup process is more personalized than tumblr, prompting me to connect with friends via email/facebook. 

##Stop and Write 2, 3: 
The similar elements between tumblr and twitter are that both websites try to encourage users, and possibly new users in particular, to follow accounts and put content on your dashboard in the case of tumblr and timeline in the case of twitter. To me, Twitter feels creepier in its way of encouraging users to follow other accounts than tumblr’s approach of providing trending posts on my dashboard. Twitter is much easier to scan and take in quickly: because of the limited number of words you can write, it is easier to scroll through twitter quickly, as well as delve deeper by clicking on the attached images, videos, and articles. As I navigated Twitter to follow @blkcodestudies and create my list, I was consistently distracted by the suggestions on the sidebar, prompting me to follow interesting accounts, which Twitter calibrates based on my demonstrated interests. Before I knew it, I was following 50 accounts in 5 minutes. I was scrolling through Twitter for what felt like 10 minutes but what turned out to be over an hour, and I found myself between a mix of emotions: fascination, confusion, scepticism, and concern: fascination and confusion because of the endless amount of instant interesting information that was being posted, and scepticism and concern about how Twitter could perceive my interests and suggest these accounts, many of which were in fact interesting to me and won over my follow. 

##Short Reflection:  
  Since we have studied and used a variety of sources and different forms of media thus far in Black Code Studies, I thought it would be interesting to create a Twitter list that combined Black visual artists, authors, actors, and singers. After considering many acclaimed creative individuals that came to mind, I ultimately decided on the five accounts that make up my list “Modern Media Activism:” artists Kehinde Wiley and Hank Willis Thomas, singer Janelle Monáe, actress Viola Davis, and author Ta-Nehisi Coates. Visual art, film, and text prove to exist as powerful modes to communicate ideas through in the twenty-first century, particularly ideas about race, African diaspora, black fugitivity, and black code. Each of these artists approach and openly discuss these topics in different, creative ways and encourage audiences to do the same, as well as to question our sometimes racist and jaded stereotypes. 
 
 @blkcodestudies should follow the accounts I picked because each of these individuals behind these accounts create groundbreaking and creative products through which modern historians and the public in general can appreciate Black history in a new way. After all, there is not one common Black history or experience, so there should not be one uniform way to understand it. Tracking these five accounts can teach us the many ways through which we can learn today, not only by reading history books and personal narratives, but also through looking, listening, and watching. 
  
  From signing on Twitter and learning how it operates, I experienced this mixed media learning I eventually tried to recreate in my list which scrolling through short, 140-word statements that often included photo, video, and audio components, as well as references to articles. I also learned that based on what you “like” or “follow,” Twitter suggests a wide variety of accounts to follow. As I was selecting my five accounts to make up my “Modern Media Activism” list, Twitter suggested many other current Black activists and artists, as well as liberal newspapers, museums, and TV shows/movies. 
  
  Even when titling my list, I felt limited by the character constraint. Especially for the activists whose accounts I selected, 140 characters must be constricting to get their reactionary, innovative, and controversial messages across in such a limited number of words. But at the same time, it restricts long-winded rants on a platform that is meant to be easily accessible and understood: on the go on smartphones, to get a quick sense of the latest news and happenings, in the morning, at night, in-between meetings or classes, on the bus, etc. As a platform available to anyone who has an email address or a phone number, it appeals to all types of people, from those as renown as Janelle Monáe and Viola Davis to users like me who will probably have a pitiful number of followers. Twitter exists as a forum welcoming to all individuals wanting to resist any forms of oppression in their lives: it encourages fugitivity, black fugitivity in this specific case. It is a forum of the latest happenings in the world, and users can filter what kind of happenings they want to be updated in constantly. It connects all individuals, famous and unknown, who are equally fascinated in and passionate about black fugitivity and history to collect information and share it in a variety of platforms. Just as slaves communicated directions to freedom by the Underground Railroad in a number of ways (folk songs, writings on the wall, secret letters and messages) Twitter too provides a platform with many ways to communicate directions and ideas. 
