##Overview 
###**Derrick Bell “Space Traders” Faces at the Bottom of the Well** 
Derrick Bell imagines a situation in which a group of unknown English-speaking individuals on a spaceship, the “Space Traders,” arrive suddenly, offering a trade for gold, a solution to pollution, safe nuclear energy, and fuel in exchange for all African Americans living in the United States. Given 16 days to decide with the final day falling on Martin Luther King Day, this extraterrestrial arrival requires government actions. This trade troubles Americans at the time, individual citizens as well as the President and his team, who debate this difficult decision to send away 15% of its population in exchange for safe energy and a cure to United States’ present problems. Derrick Bell explains the struggle the President, his team, and citizens go through when weighing the options, while acknowledging that Blacks have rights too and it is important to understand the historical context of Black migration in order to make an informed decision. They eventually decide to send the Blacks away, even though they realize that if it were any other group in question, the debate wouldn’t have gone on nearly as long or closely tied. 

###**Uri McMillan, “Ellen Craft’s Radical Techniques of Subversion”**
Uri McMillan tells the story of Ellen Craft, an African-American female slave from Georgia who dressed as Mr. William Johnson, a white slave owner, to escape slavery along with her husband, also a slave. They miraculously managed to veil her race and gender by purchasing and collecting various pieces of men’s clothing, an extremely radical undertaking for anyone, particularly a slave, in the nineteenth century. McMillan analyzes Ellen’s accomplishment as a performance within a larger historical slave initiative and common practice among slaves to mimic their masters and perform. Ellen Craft managed to create “realness,” existing undetectably as a white upper-class male. McMillan compares Ellen’s successful rendering of realness to William Johnson to Paris is Burning. But McMillan revels in the fact that Ellen managed to become regarded as William Johnson, even when she struggled to blend in on a train in Baltimore and act as though she was disabled. She concludes the article by focusing on the meaning behind Ellen’s curtsy, and how it challenged the ideas behind race and beauty. The combination of her masterful performance as William Johnson and her curtsy demonstrate her ability to mimic male whiteness but also transgress the limit of 19th century ideas about race and beauty.  

##Reflection 
This group of readings looks at unconventional forms of contemplating race, through studies of space/unknown beings and performance/acting. They provide context for I’Nasah Crockett’s discussion of Antiblackness and Misogynoir by demonstrating how Blacks are often considered differently and inferiorly compared to other humans. In the case of Space Traders, if the trade offer had been giving up young women or children in exchange for the solution to United States’ energy and pollution problems, the President, his team, and general citizens would not have weighed the pros and cons for much longer and weighed the pros and cons. In the case of Ellen Craft’s heroic success in fooling her contemporaries that she was William Johnson to execute her escape to freedom and her embodiment of black female beauty, she managed to challenge norms that had never before been called into question. Both of these articles demonstrate the common antiblack threads we see in the 19th century, in the 20th century, and today on social media. 

##Expand 
Derrick Bell’s reading made me think of Kid Cudi’s song Man on the Moon, and the cover art for his song Day n Nite where he is shown as an astronaut. As I contemplated space motifs used by rappers, Chance the Rapper’s AcidRap came to mind as well as Drake’s Views album art. Just as Detroit AfroFuturistic artists saw space as a symbol of how they felt separated from the dominant whites and society, rappers today nod to this symbol and this feature of Afro music history. 
!(https://i.ytimg.com/vi/IQPm7yoSmTo/maxresdefault.jpg)
!(https://i.ytimg.com/vi/e67Q-sTHVhc/maxresdefault.jpg) 
!(https://i.scdn.co/image/e73c706e842eb5233eab7afd3404218a2696d568) 

##Questions 
1.	Are there other narratives besides Ellen Craft’s that describe disguising oneself as their slave owner? 
2.	What was the intended result and audience of Derrick Bell’s article? 
3.	How can we imagine that the result of the trade in Space Traders would have been different if women or children were offered up? Would the unknown ultimate destination for the groups discourage Americans from agreeing to the trade?  
