# LabLog Week 11
# Overview 
* Jepchumba Fakugesi, "Digital Art Residency" Future Lab Podcast
In this podcast, Jepchumba Fakugesi, a South African artist, talks about her latest piece the "Future Selfie Booth". Fakugesi shares the reactions and responses people had to her instillation. When she interacted with people, she asked them how far in the future they would like to travel. She shares that most people expressed desire to travel in the near future, for instance teenagers wanted to travel to their 30's and 40's to see how their life would turn out. Fakugesi theorizes that many people think about the future in relation to their lives and the idea of thinking about the future of humanity (say 100+ years) is too depressing a thought. She also says that the personalized nature of thinking about the future is also related to Western notions of defining future as progress. Fakugesi says for non-western people the idea of "progress" is worrying because they view it as a way to eliminate cultures within the present, as it has been done in the past when thinking about the future. 

* "The Lenny Interview: Kimberly Drew Aka @MuseumMammy" Lenny Letter
In this interview, Kimberly Drew speaks about her experience as a black millennial artist who primarily focuses her work on the internet. Drew states that her work is influenced by the intersection of art, technology and race. While from her personal experience she did not view art history as white or euro-centric, she says she can understand how art limits its audience. Specifically, she talks about how non-white people can be disinterested in art. However, it is important to appreciate and be invested in art because it is both a historical artifact and a outlook of the social world. Within the interview, Drew also talks about how it is important to adapt technology to different individuals and cultures. For instance she gives a poignant  example where she says Mark Zuckerberg wants everyone to have access to internet, but does not realize that the internet is not made for everybody. Through this example, Drew is saying that the internet and web technology is limiting to non-western, non-white beings and instead of adapting, technology forces those people to familiarize themselves with the western practice. Hence, it is important for technology and art to adapt. 

* Kellie Jones "To/From Los Angeles with Betye Saar" 
In this piece Jones focuses on the work of Betye Saar and artists in Los Angeles in the early 1960's and 1970's. Jones begins by discussing how social unrest around America influenced arts and started the black arts movement. She says the difference between NY and LA was that artists in LA had space and greater landscape to produce art and provide space resources for artists to use. Then Jones talks about how LA art provided a model for alternative conceptions of black arts. She says that most common forms of black arts expression related to vivid color, imagery and text that made the reader think, however LA art moved away from these practices. LA art was more abstract and relied less on text and more on imagery. She focuses on how the work of Betye Saar was ahead of its time because she created art that spoke about the black female body and experience and black femininity, including motherhood, which was lacking from the feminist art movement of the 1970's. 

* Krauthamer and Willis "Envisioning Emancipation" 
This article features a collection of images spanning the late 1800's to early 1900's. These images both represent emancipated and enslaved African Americans. It also features images that were used to depict African Americans as subhuman, employing the "scientific" understanding of race as well as positive depictions of individuals. 

# Reflection
Listening to Fakugesi speak in the podcast about her instillation made me think about the way that I think about the future. When I think about the future, I always think about it in relation to myself. I always think about life in my late 30's and what career I am going to have, where I am going to live and whether or not i am going to adopt kids, and if I do will it be with a partner or by myself. I don't necessarily agree with Fakugesi's point about personalized views of future as a non-western term but I understand how such a view can arise. However, I do agree with Fakugesi's argument about the westernized view of the future as "development". For instance, when we look at Hopkins and the role its playing in gentrifying or rather "developing" Baltimore, much of the rhetoric they use is about technology and development: better access to transportation, employment opportunities and improved educational outcome. However, within this rhetoric while the subject is in regards to a individuals, it is not specifically about individuals who already live in Baltimore. The same way western concepts of future during colonialism was about developing societies for the sake of the colonizer, not the colonized. After listening to the podcast, its interesting to think about the parallels in concepts of future and development throughout modern history. 

# Comment
To answer Jack's second question from last week, I would say it has become very trendy, so much so that it is actually quite profitable. Just looking at how "twerking" has become such a phenomena and celebrities paying money to get butt implants. 

# Expand
Last Friday, I went to the new African American Museum at the Smithsonian and saw a very interesting piece about urban sprawl and the formation of city slums in the 1970's. I related this back to the Drew interview because I think the museum and in particular imagery of plight and urban decay is a step in making art more relevant to non white people, which is something Drew strongly supports. 

# Questions
1. Drew says that black existence is a form of technology, do you agree with this statement?
2. Do you agree with the western/non-western conceptions of future discussed in the podcast?
3. What role do you think art and specifically digital art can play in social movements?
