## Lab Log #14 | Channing Kimble-Brown

### Overview

**_Envisioning Emancipation_**

* This excerpt of a pice by Krauthamer and Willis focuses on the use of photography in the 1850s during slavery and just after the Civi War in the United States. They say that Americans were very aware of the contradiction of having slavery  and claiming that the country was built on liberty and freedom. To reconcile these issues, there were white people that used photography to either show that enslaved Africans were subhuman and should remain enslaved or that the slaves were being well taken care of and didn't need freedom. Slaves would be undressed and treated like lab specimen to be put on display for scientific scrutiny while mammy-like figures would be placed in images with white children like a pet, always subordinate to the white family. Even when slaves were dressed and posed individually it was usually because the slaveholder was exerting his power over them. Free black people and white abolitionists used photography to counter the racist photos used by the other side. Black people would try to embody wealth, intelligence and while white abolitionists would try to ease the fears of white middle class northerners by creating before and after photosets of light-skinned enslaved black children who started off enslaved and poorly dressed and were supposed to end up free and well educated productive members of society. Frederick Douglass and Sojourner Truth were especially well known for distributing their own images as a way to reclaim selfhood and humanity or black people. Later during the war, runaway slaves that ran to the Union would take pictures of being free, free blac people would photograph themselves emigrating to Canada and Liberia to avoid re-enslavement. After the war many black people took photos at reunions with other former slaves or at celebrations of Emancipation. All of the photos feature in the rest of the book are meant to serve as a family album, tying us back to our black ancestors since these photos serve as both record and relic, the only information we have on these individuals and our only link to their lives.

**"To/From Los Angeles with Betye Saar"**

* In this piece, Kellie Jones writes about black art in LA in the 1960s and 70s, particularly about the rise of Betye Saar. Saar started out as a social worker and married mother of two that made posters and greeting cards. At that point, many African American artists were seen as hobbyists or amateurs, exhibiting work anywhere they could find space in LA. They often made functional artwork and things that were very domestic. Saar came up during a time when police brutality a huge problem, to the point that there were riots in 300 cities across the country. Amidst the violence and fear, the Black Arts Movement developed along with the Black Power Movement. Artists focused on the black heroes and families, deconstructing caricatures and negative stereotypes, like Saar's piece with the mammy being portrayed as a warrior. Saar was featuring black women's bodies a decade before feminist art was even a concept and she often put her work in windows. The creation of the African American artists advocacy group Arts West Associated North brought much deserved attention to black artists in California and Saar eventually grew so popular that she had shows on both coasts. People have grown to revere her work  and are inspired by her use of time and mysticism.

**"The Lenny Interview: Kimberly Drew, Aka @MuseumMammy"**

* In this interview of Kimberly Drew, Drew talks about how the internet is made for white English speakers and people often see art history as very Euro-centric. She didn't realize until she was older that not everyone had a computer growing up or learned from their families that art should be equal-access for everyone. She sees blackness as its own technology, building ways to fight against a system that is made to work against black people. Interning at a museum in Harlem made her realize that black art is not nearly as accessible as it should be since she never saw any of it in her college classes. As a result she has made it her mission to share as much of it with the wider public as possible. At the Met she tries to give fans of art the tools to learn about the art before they even come to the museum.

**"Digital Art Residency"**

* In this audio recording of an interview, Kenyan artist named Jepchumba discusses her digital art residency in Johannesburg, South Africa. She talks about an installment that she referred to as a selfie time machine. She would bring in passersby and ask them about a message/selfie they wanted to send themselves in the future and when in the future they wanted it. She also asked them about where they saw themselves 50-100 years from now, which many people found odd since they likely wouldn't live that long. She wanted to promote futurist thinking that may not come so naturally to Africans that are oftens so rooted in thinking about history and tradition. She really appreciated the mysticism of African mythology and the creativity, pragmatism and collaboration that was so prominent in Johannesburg.

---
### Reflection

The most interesting piece to me in this group is the one about envisioning emancipation. The idea of using photography to craft the version of yourself that you want to present to the world seems to have carried through to the present day popularity of selfies. Almost everyone can take tons of pictures of themselves and choose what to do with those pictures. But the way that white people would take pictures of exposed black women to suggest that they weren't human enough to be treated with dignity is reminiscient of revenge porn or just generally hacking into accounts and leaking nude photos. There's this sense of entitlement to black women's bodies and a desire to flex their power by exploiting the image of black women's bodies to send the message that black women and by extension black people don't deserve respect or privacy. The story about Saar is kind of wild to me because in the grand scheme of things, the events described are very recent. Like, my parents were born in 1965 and my grandparents definitely lived through this in Chicago recent. It makes me wonder why the Black Arts Movement stopped or what it turned into because I know next to nothing about art history. Both of the interviews we read/listened to were really cool to me because they kind of show what's possible when black women are allowed to create unrestricted. They are out here exposing people to new ways of thinking that could really change people's perspective on things.

---
### Expand

I read [this interview](http://www.vulture.com/2016/09/ava-duvernay-directing-queen-sugar.html) with Ava Duvernay a while back about Queen Sugar (a tv show I highly recommend) when the first season was still airing and I wanted to bring it up here. She briefly talks about properly lighting actors of color and why proper lighting has been so uncommon. That and the rest of the interview just seem to speak to how black people have to very intentionally create our own images because proper portrayal is rarely a priority or concern for white people in any form of media, much like the photos of slaves that were meant to cast slavery in a positive light, or portray slaves as subhuman.

---
### Comment
 
Regarding Zoya's [third question](https://github.com/ZSattar/blkcodestudies/blob/15b361d70bf79825a3f85ca85059661ebaa67177/lab_logs/week11/Zoya%20LL14.md) I was also surprised by how large the international audience was for the Met. But I suppose the Met probably has displays and exhibits from artists all over the world, drawing fans from all over the world as well.

---
### Question

1. What kind of message would you send to yourself in the future if you were to participate in the future selfie time machine?
2. I find the idea of African hair braiding as a form of technology interesting, what would you say that it is used for? If blackness building technologies against a system that is working against black people, how does hair braiding fit into that concept? Is it an intentional form of resistance? Or is it just inherently political because it is so closely associated with black people?
3. How do you feel about the idea of Blackbird? Why do you think Mozilla thought that black people needed their own separate web browser? Social enclaves I understand, but I am failing to see why people thought a whole web browser was necessary. Did Mozilla make web browsers for other ethnicities/races?
