##Summary

###**The Uncanny History of Minstrels and Machines, 1835. Louis Chude Sokei** 
In this article, Louis Chude Sokei tracks racial anxieties and how they were shaped in American culture. Through examples such as P.T Barnum purchasing the rights to display slave woman Joice Heth and Blackface Minstrelsy, he contemplates this confusing mix of racism and domesticated acceptance of the African aesthetic in American modern culture. 
Sokei explains this ambivalence towards Blacks at the time of American modernization, especially in the age of industry, by seeing and displaying Blacks as the exotic figure between machine and person. This idea is rooted in racial stereotypes, viewing the “African aesthetic” as a glorified trouble history existing and evolving as contrary to Western culture. But as the West slowly began to understand and appreciate Africa for its cultural teachings and lessons as it developed its own popular culture and modernism, Africa signified everything from timeless existence to Western colonization, and was represented in Western culture through jazz, primitive art and literature, dance shows, and most intensely, blackface minstrelsy. He explains blackface minstrelsy as sign of the combination of modern and antebellum or pre-technology and the machine age, a popularized and domesticated notion of the African aesthetic in modern American society. These depictions of Africans and Blacks embodied the notions of the times, this time of “primitivist modernism” that acknowledged the existence of Africa and Blacks, but highlighted the inherent American racism towards Blacks. Sokei finishes his article with this concept of Americans feeling somewhat threatened by the rich historical African heritage, describing it as a “clichéd modernist malaise and its fetish for Africa.” This quotation encompasses much of what he is trying to explain about this acceptance of Blacks as existing in and being important to American modern society, but also the idea that they are inferior in some way. 

###**US Operating Systems at Mid-Century: The Intertwining of Race and UNIX. Tara McPherson** 
Tara McPherson compares the years of 1965-1968, important dates for the Internet world and development in race theory and relations. This period marked significant technological breakthrough in UNIX, and important events for culture, gender, and race relations including the passing of the Voting Rights Act, the founding of NOW and Black Panthers, and African independence for 2/3 of the continent. Acknowledging at first the seeming lack of connection between these two sectors, McPherson goes on to explain how both sectors saw a period of clarity and simplicity during these years, emphasizing the importance of the movement towards modularity in both digital software and civil rights development. After realizing the independent developments between these two sectors, she goes on to demonstrate how this period served as a period of clarity and simplicity, which in turn resulted in covert racism and over simplifying complex issues. Race theorists argue that this movement highlighted similarities instead of differences between groups, but it actually created new problems and complicated issues. These negative impacts of movement toward modular knowledge also negatively impacted the computer software world at the same time by over-simplifying the data and software, especially as more and more information was being made available. McPherson concludes her essay by demonstrating that internet and race are in fact inherently entangled, because of their identical timing of development and unsuccessful move towards simplicity. She highlights how this reasoning against simplicity and modules can apply to the university, with people increasingly focusing on area studies that are too specific and don’t inspire interdisciplinary studies. She argues that in our world today, hybrid practices such as “artist-theorists, activist scholars, and theoretical archivists” need to be more common, instead of specific, single-focused jobs that embrace the ideas computer scientists and racial theorists embraced in the late 1960s. 

###**On Its 10th Birthday, A Short History of Twitter in Tweets. Julia Greenberg** 
This article tracks the history of Twitter on its 10th anniversary, and shows how it evolved from its first days to its use by Donald Trump during the election, and various highlights in between. It includes the various feedback received from the public, commenting specifically on its ubiquity but also its existence as a platform for anger and frustration, described as a “hotbed for hostility” and “loudspeaker for the disenfranchised.” Whether an avid Tweeter or not, historical events have been documented first on twitter: in 2009, Twitter was the first to report the landing of Sully in the Hudson River, 2009 also marks the first tweet from space, in 2011 Twitter played a key roll in inspiring the Arab Spring, and in 2015 Obama posted on Twitter for the first time. It tracks the latest news and events and archives our development over the past 10 years. 

###**How Black People May or May Not Use Twitter. Sam Sanders** 
Sam Sanders is responding to an article written by Slate technology’s Farhad Manjoo titled “How Black People Use Twitter” which went viral and resulted in huge controversial discussions on the Internet. He argued in his article that many trending topics and hastags come from Blacks, and Black youth in particular, and they are the ones who tend to reply to tweets more often and post in general. This article called into question if this is even a fair way to talk about people, asking if people are only talking about the Black presence on Twitter because it is not considered “mainstream,” while White middle-aged men re-tweeting their friends’ tweets is mainstream, just like making a big deal of a Black person riding a bike. This article, whether it intended to or not, inspired a form of activism against Twitter, asking them to change the blue bird icon because it fails to represent different races and types of people. 

###**Social Media Helps Black Lives Matter Fight the Power. Sijan Stephen** 
This article explains the important and monumental role that technology has played in the development of important Civil Rights movements such as Black Lives Matter, but that technology has also led to the increased ability to publish racist claims publicly and anonymously. Sijan Stephen outlines the positives and negatives of increased access to Internet, and what a huge role it has played in connecting Blacks but also makes anti-Black harassment, threats, and insults increasingly common. He begins the article by describing how activists could have reported messages to Civil Rights Workers through an elaborate call system that required approval by a switchboard operator and compilation of various accounts in a “WATS report” before it could get sent to Civil Rights Groups, the media, the Justice Department, and lawyers. He writes, “in other word, it took a lot of infrastructure to live-tweet what was going on in the streets of the Jim Crow South.” In 1965 during the voting-rights march in Selma, protesters didn’t have the access to technology, but reporters documented the event and 48 million Americans watched what had happened that night. Today Blacks have access to technology they didn’t have before, and they have inspired large scale movements such as Black Lives Matter, first used in summer 2013 in a Facebook post discussing George Zimmerman’s acquittal. This movement is one of the most effective and powerful Civil Rights movements since the 1960s, changing what it means to be Black and bonding them together. Thus technology makes some posts such as harassment and racial threats more possible, but it also inspires and encourages large-scale civil rights movements that would have been much more difficult to organize before.  

##Reflection 

This collection of articles looks at the role of technology in Black lives and Civil Rights movements, and what kind of link exists between technological and racial development. It is fascinating to look at Sokei’s article after reading Stephen and Sanders’ discussing how Twitter and Facebook have made it increasingly possible for Blacks to band together and inspire racial awareness and change, but also an increasingly public and anonymous environment to harass and attack Blacks. Sanders’ article bothered me for a number of reasons, not because of what he was saying or how he said it, but because of the larger issues behind the tendency to track Black activity in comparison to White’s. If anything, Twitter exists as a platform more welcoming to Blacks than anything else, because they face discrimination being published and highly acclaimed. The almost open access to sites like Twitter, Tumblr, and Facebook appeal to all Americans, and we have seen how these platforms can become increasingly politicized and personal in times of elections and movements. This is a tendency for all races living in the US and across the world, not just for Blacks. It is true that technology and public platforms have inspired Black movements, increased common identity, agency, and mobility, but this is possibly only because no other option seemed fit. Feeling otherwise silenced, these public platforms exist as easy way to articulate oneself in a public arena. 
It is mind-blowing to me that Obama first tweeted in 2015: “Hello, Twitter! It’s Barack. Really! Six years in, they’re finally giving me my own account,” while Trump’s Twitter could not have possibly been more active and controversial throughout his campaign and presidency. 

##Expand 

https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/style/for-decades-they-hid-jeffersons-mistress-now-monticello-is-making-room-for-sally-hemings/2017/02/18/d410d660-f222-11e6-8d72-263470bf0401_story.html?utm_term=.7020b1c2b91c&wpisrc=nl_rainbow&wpmm=1

Although this article discussing the excavation and restoration of Sally Hemings’ room in Monticello is not the most clearly relevant for this week’s readings, it links to the uncovering of Black stories and the support in the Black community for projects and movements of this kind. Just as how Blacks see social media as an important way to bond together through movements such as #BlackLivesMatter, accomplishments of this kind demonstrate how our country does acknowledge the wrongdoings of slavery, and does not merely view Blacks in the past as slave labor and inspiration for blackface performances. It is the attempt to uncover history and understand it in a new way. 

##Questions 

1.	What kind of censorship can Social Media platforms put in place to discourage unfair harassment of Blacks and other minorities, especially when they use the forums more often for Civil Rights movements and activism? 
2.	What exactly is Sokei’s concept of “privitivist modernism” and why did it lead to an American acceptance of Blacks in some aspects, but in a somewhat backwards way? 
3.	How can we avoid making overarching statements and studies comparing Black and White Americans’ use of retweeting in different ways, but also claim that we embrace an increasingly simplistic and modular understanding of race today? This seems contradictory to me. 
