# OVERVIEW:
The Last Angel of History is a film that introduces Afrofuturism – in which Black musicians around the 80s and 90s used technological music to express their feelings of alienation in the world they live in. The documentary is told in a story in which a “data thief” tries to decode the historical nuances of Black artists and their impact on popular culture. Black Ontology article discussed how Black America has been shaped by Black artists. Yet, not all Black artists have been equally influential. Tate points to specifically Black musicians who have been the most influential – not purely on their own merit but in the nature of music and its ability to proliferate much easier than any other form of art. Kodwo Eshun is a critic of Black Audio Film Collective and how their form of visual art has “constituted a radical interruption of the smooth teleology of the twentieth century European film culture.” The Sally Hemings zine showcases specifically women’s visual and auditory art that put into context their cultural and social struggle post-slavery. 
# REFLECTION:
The Black Ontology article describes a trend that I noticed in Black culture. Tate says that Black people gave the world Bille Holiday, Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong, Tina Turner, etc. The influence of Black musicians have been more widespread than the impact of Black visual artists. What I question is, does this apply to any other culture too? Could we say the same, for example, Korean Pop music. Korea has given the US Kpop in the form of Psy’s Gangnam Style and Big Bang’s many hits. However, do many Americans know notable Korean visual artists? I’d argue that, though Black musicians had an immense influence on making their mark in American history moreso than Black visual artists, this is a similar phenomenon seen with other races. 
# EXPAND:
At the Reginald F. Lewis Museum in Baltimore, there is an exhibit called Art in the Hands of Men. The exhibit consists of artwork that recognizes African American trailblazers in art, history and popular culture, past and present and features only the works of black men. This reminds me of the readings because we have been focusing on how Black history/culture has intertangled with popular culture. It is no surprise that Baltimore is a hub for Black art and expression. 
# COMMENT:
Ellie’s expand post: the picture of Four Tops strikes a double toned feeling for me. In one way, I am happy to see how there were some brave artists who pursued their dream and share their music. However, it’s also upsetting to know that they were not necessarily true to who they were purely to appeal to the white audiences. This makes me wonder: were they sell outs? Or were they paving the way for future artists to push the boundaries in music?
# QUESTION:
1.	Were there many film makers who had a similar style to the BAFC?
2.	Other than collaborating with musicians on music videos, how can Black visual artists intermix their art with music?
3.	How long has Sally Hemings Zine been helping the WIND Re-entry program? How affective has selling art been in generating money for the program?
