### How does this CSV disrupt/break/corrupt the violence of the slave ship manifest?
* A CSV is a series of numbers, commas, words, of the data from the slave ship. It disrupts the violence of the slave ship manifest because it is a new way of interpreting old data into our new systems in computing. 
* By inputting this information into our systems of CSV that contain booleans, arrays, and null we can transform how data has been interpreted under a strict and often times 
* The entire idea behind the slave ship manifesto is that it was the mindless input and computation of pure data regarding slaves. In the creation of this manifesto, the humanity of the slaves transferred on this hip were lost. By rewriting the information in this modern day and age, we are corrupting the violence that was inherently contained in the original manifestation of this manifesto
### For each field, explain/justify why your team decided this was the best way to corrupt?
* We decided to categorize all the data under first name, last name, place of residence, ethnicity (arrays), and height (boolean).
* We wanted each slave’s name to be represented. Each of these slaves disembarked from Richmond, which is where their residences are listed. However, it is possible that some of these slaves originated from other parts of the United States. When looking at the slave manifest, this information is lost. 
### For each use of Boolean, null, and array, explain/justify why your team decided this was the best way to corrupt?
* We’re not necessarily corrupting the data, we are simply updating this old data into a new system so that it can be non subjective to people who discover and uncover the data in the future. 
* Boolean: The height of the slaves were changed to a boolean variable. Using this system it completely disrupts the flow of information about the slaves. Other than complexion, height is one of the biggest identifiers left in our CSV. A simple change of values to 1 or 0 system makes the slaves very hard to identify.
### How did you corrupt each individual record? (i.e. how does your formula disrupt Plat's appearance in the document)
* Corruption of each individual report begins with their assignment into different categories. In doing so, we begin to attempt to humanize them instead of merely record them. In essence, we are moving away from the systematic taking of information that slave owners and transports would mindlessly partake in. Instead, we are inputting actual effort into the value of each individual, rewriting their information while being aware that these were real people who suffered through countless horrors. 
### How did you corrupt the document as a whole? (i.e. how does your formula disrupt the underlying logic of a slave ship manifest)
* The formula does not necessarily disrupt the underlying logic of a slave ship manifest, rather it solidifies and furthers the perception that these slaves were almost anonymous. It strips the humanity from these slaves into Yes/No options. 
* The purpose of the slave ship manifest is to document every detail of the slaves in order to be sure of where their slaves go, or show the buyers of slaves their information regarding identity, appearance, and origin. 
