# LabLog Week 6
# "Surveillance and Social Media Archiving" by Bregis Jules 
* Jules is writing about the implications of using social media as an archival source. He believes that social media, especially twitter, is a great source to document African American history and culture as many young African American teens are active on twitter. He presents arguments pertaining to both sides of the issues surrounding social media and documenting. While he believes archiving can be a great way to study the "now", there are many negatives about data. He argues that social media documenting has been a strategic way for private firms and security officials to track prominent black activists and according to him data collection has been manipulated as a way of criminalizing and punishing individuals for using their platform to voice concerns of inequality. 

# "Everyone Watches, Nobody Sees: How Black Women Disrupt Surveillance Theory" by Sydette Harry
* In this article Harry emphasizes how our understanding of surveillance needs to move beyond discussion of technology and more towards the cultural standards of surveillance. Here, she talks about how black women are both abused and neglected from surveillance. She first discusses Rihanna's  tribute to Josephine Baker where the pop star dressed in tribute to Baker, who was a cultural icon in early 20th century. Harry criticizes writers from crediting Jennifer Lopez and Iggy Azelea for starting a "movement" of celebrating all types of figures in mass media. Harry states that by crediting non-black women for promoting a positive body image, they essentially erase the contributions made by black women. Moreover, Harry finds this ironic because black women are constantly surveilled for their body shapes and criticized and when it becomes "cool" to have a big butt, the focus is shifted to white women. The other potent point she makes is that surveillance harms black women by exposing them to the larger society. Here she points to the footage of Janay Rice being physically abused by her husband and Solange Knowles yelling at Jay-Z. Her point is that first the exposure of these videos produces a spectacle around black individuals and that's problematic  (i.e. why are we repeatedly watching videos of black men being killed on camera?). Her other argument is that the visibility of these scenarios distract from the main point (i.e. Janay Rice video allows white feminist to demand that there should be more jobs for women, instead of discussing the toxic-masculine culture produced by the NFL or the severity of domestic violence).  

# "U.S.Police Cellphone Surveillance by 'Singray,' Mapped-CityLab" by George Joseph
* In this article Joseph exposes the questionable ethical practice of surveillance used by police departments. Joseph says that police departments use 'stingray" operations by obtaining data through cell phone towers and other conventional methods. Joseph's piece really poses an important dilemma about surveillance and technology, given that it mainly targets poor African American communities

# "Everybody's Got a Little Light Under the Sun" Simone Browne
* In this article Browne discusses the historical development of surveillance practice, arguing that surveillance is not a new phenomena associated with the rise in high-technology instead it is a continued practice that targets African Americas. Through her discussion of the Book of Negroes, Brown articulates how the book became a source of identification for many African Americans, and this book became a tool for surveillance. 

# Reflection:
I watched part of the video in the Bergis Jules video with four activists who organized and lef protests in Ferguson in 2014 (Alexis Templeton, Rasheen Aldrige, Kayla Reed, and Reuben Riggs) and the point about social media elitism really resonated with me. The point about social media v. on the ground work made me think about DeRay Mckesson's recent unsuccessful mayoral campaign. During the campaign I saw numerous posts on facebook (mainly from white people) that expressed their support for DeRay and how he had a fresh vision for Baltimore which the city could benefit from. Then I saw many grassroots organizations criticizing DeRay for his connections to Teach for America (TFA) and his lack of engagement with community organizations. Personal opinions aside, I think he is a great example of how social media activism allows the audience to become fascinated with the individual and create a character for that individual such that they are no longer themselves, only an idealized version of what the audience wants them to be. I think this is detrimental to activism in general because the audience is only concerned with the photo-ops instead of the on the ground work that Reed emphasizes as the most important aspect of activism. 

# Expand:
Reading Harry's piece about how even when black culture becomes visible, black women become invisible made me think about the recent oscar best picture fiasco. It makes me angry to know that many of the headlines next day was about how "brave" and "awesome" the producer from LaLaLand was who "graciously" gave Moonlight producers the award. I think it just proves the point about media sidelining an event and the true purpose, honoring a movie that represent black queer culture like never before, for secondary concerns, white bald guy is so cool because he is gracious in defeat. 

# Comment:
To answer Zoya's comment about future textbooks, I certainly believe that future textbooks will include content on BLM and social media activism. In fact, my sociology textbook which was printed in 2015 discusses the Arab Spring movements at length with specific focus on twitter and its influence in the movement. I think in that regard there will be content but in terms of the analysis of the movement, I do not think so. 

# Questions
1. Can an individual be both a social media and grassroots activist?
2. With regard to the work of DocumentNow, how do you think we can document and use social media as an archive without infiltrating and sidetrack it to subsume social movements?
3. Do you feel safe about sharing "radical" political messages and views on social media? By 
