Lab Log # 8

**Overview**

Harry Reading

Sydette Harry describes surveillance as a form of entitlement to access by right or by force. She examines white surveillance of the Black body, particularly the bodies of Black women. Surveillance is another facet of a power relationship between surveilled and the surveillant, that latter abuses that power. Further, the surveilled person or persons cannot not resist being surveilled for two factors. One, the surveilled individuals or individuals are unaware that they are being surveilled or two, they face consequences for resisting their own oppression.

Harry tracks surveillance not only by government actors, but also private citizens. She refers to a white man’s description of Black women as “raving amazons” to highlight white male’s fetishizing of Back women’s bodies. This abuse of Black women’s bodies is maintained in online spaces. Online users illegally obtain photos of Black women, using them to create caricatures of Black women and pose as them in online spaces. Harry also criticizes media for its non-consensual surveillance of Black women which she believes leads to “gross appropriation, clumsy admiration and/or willful erasure.” She mentions a NYTIMES piece on Shonda Rhimes as an example of the consequences of this surveillance. Further, she mentions that media behavior maybe the result of an ignorance to racial education. Harry discusses the concept of sousveillance (still needs clarification on this) and how technology is at the intersection of historical forms of surveillance. 

Jules Reading

Bergis Jules explains the purpose and importance of Documenting the Now, a project devoted to archiving Twitter data for easy use, collecting, analyzing and sharing. This project was inspired by the activism and protest surrounding the Ferguson movement in 2015. Jules considers this project a way to help build a community of archivists and other individuals committed to engaging with content owners and creators to share equitable and safe data. He argues that traditional archival practices do not work for the current historical moment. Data is tied more to the individual than ever before. 

Jules identifies Twitter as a necessary media platform for archivists to digitize and collect data. Twitter presents a new opportunity for archivists to capture African American voices in their rawest and unfiltered forms. The social media site can aid in documenting aspects of African American culture that is lost and ignored in traditional media. He claims that traditional archives lack robust information on the African American experience and reasons that Twitter archiving could be a first step in rectifying that issue. However, Jules urges archivists consider user safety and understand how data collection will affect the lives of users. 

Joseph Article 

George Joseph brings to readers’ attention a disturbing practice of police department in the United States. Local police departments use Stingray operations to conduct covert surveillance on city residents without probable cause. These Stingray operations mimics cell towers, force phones to join faux cell towers and extract information such as locations, numbers, phone calls and text messages. Police agencies claim to not invade the privacy of city resident’s, but civil liberty advocates are justified skeptics. Stingray operations occur at a disproportionate rate in low income communities of color, the ACLU found. This finding proves a concerted effort by law enforcement and other government institutions to monitor Black bodies even in spaces of perceived comfort and safety. In Baltimore, observers found that 90% of Stingray operations occurred in neighborhoods with a large African-American majority. Stingray operations were found at lower rates than white neighborhoods in Baltimore City. Joseph mentions the Department of Justice’s report into Baltimore Police Department’s discriminatory practices against Black residents as evidence for discriminatory nature of Stingray operations.

Browne Reading

Simone Browne continues this week’s theme of Black surveillance through an examination of the Book of Negroes. She considers the Book the first government issued document for state regulated migration between the US and Canada. Browne also describes the Book as a tool of surveillance as a tracking system of formerly enslaved people “freed” by the British. The Book offers a detailed archiving of the movement of former slaves from their departure point in New York to Nova Scotia or ports in Europe. Browne maintains that the Book of Negroes is an early example of how body and skin become tools of identification for tracking and surveillance by governments. Browne includes an anecdote of earlier acts of white surveillance of the Black body in colonial New York. After the April 1712 slave insurrection, 23 Black slaves were publicly hanged, beheaded, and burned at the stake. Consequently, NYC government began to place strict requirements on Black and Indigenous life, forcing these individuals to carry a lantern at night to identify their ethnicity. Browne deems lanterns a tool of surveillance, which made the black body watched, knowable and locatable. 

Browne highlights the Frances Tavern as a key site in post-revolution arbitration between former slaves and slave owners seeking to reclaim them. She examines the case of Aminata Diallo, a bookkeeper at the Frances Tavern. Someone claiming to own Diallo petitioned for her re-enslavement. In her argument against re-enslavement, Diallo captured the frustration of many freed Blacks who felt their labor, toil, and body were exploited by the British during the Revolution only for those promises of freedom only to be abandoned after the Revolution was won. Eventually, Diallo emigrates to Nova Scotia, then London and finally to Africa. However, her testimony against the exploitation of the Black body proves how the Book of Negroes was used as a monitoring tool, substantiating Browne’s argument.

**Reaction**

I am not surprised that law enforcement agencies use applications to monitor social media movements of political activists. Jules references Geofeedia, a social media monitoring platform that surveille the activities of Black Lives Matters activists. This platform is no different from the FBI files on civil rights activists or Black radicals of the 1960s. Geofeedia is a new incarnation of historical surveillance of individuals and institutions that track and monitor Black resistance to white oppression. I am surprised that these surveillance platforms are not caught more often. One of the benefits of 21st century tech is great access to information. I think more radical activists are moving towards encrypted web sites and social media sites for this purpose. 

**Comment**  

In response to Ellie’s first question, I do not think that Stingray operations have positive intended purposes. If the objective of Stingray is to monitor suspected criminals, I am not sure if law enforcement agents can discern between suspect criminals and civilians. Regardless of the intent, the government should not have the authority to gather private information of citizens. There can never be positive intent from government surveillance. I agree with civil liberties advocates that this behavior encourages limited government oversight and invites the government and its institutions to abuse its surveillance power.

**Expand**

[Tory Lanez Tries Explains Canada on the Rickey Smiley Show ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IN2VBuEFW-E)

I have always been interested in understanding the history of Black Canadians. Canada is described as promise land in slave narratives, but not much discussion is had on the existence of Blacks once settled in Canada. Browne’s reading began to unpack Canada’s Black history, but I would like to conduct a closer reading of this history or watch a film. Considering how Canada’s white government treated its First Nations residents, I can imagine that Blacks were treated with equal contempt. Recording artist Tory Lanez claims that Canada might be a safer place for Black people than the USA. His argument relates to the lower rates of gun violence and use by law enforcement, but I fear that it ignores some history and promotes the stereotype of Canada as a land free of racial strife. In Lanez’s defense,  the radio hosts (I love the Rickey Smiley show btw, but Gary and the other dude are messy) force him to take this less nuanced approach to Canadian race relations. It gets real problematic at the end though. 

**Questions**

1. In what ways are Black men complicit in the surveillance of Black women in virtual and reality settings? Is the stalking of Instagram models and sliding into their DMs an example of virtual surveillance? Is standing along the side of a building or on a car to watch a woman or a group of women walk by with the fellas an example of surveillance in a social setting? How can Black man change this behavior?

2. What will become of digital data if archiving resistance movements becomes a tool that leads to consequence for activists?  What if the collection of this history becomes the demise of certain individuals or organizations? Is this conflict a new challenge for or one that occurred after other historical moments?

3. Are we in a new moment of public history where archiving occurs simultaneously as history? is every day a new entry into a database?
