### Overview
Freelon, McIlwain, and Clark in *“Beyond the Hashtags:#Ferguson, #Blacklivesmatter, and the Online Struggle for Offline Justice."* go to the roots of the Black Lives Matter movement. Their research found that the Black Lives Matter hashtag was created in 2013 after the murder of Trayvon Martin, but did not truly take off until 2015. This hashtag has become a source of information and companionship in this increasingly tense world. The hashtag allows for the spreading of knowledge almost instantaneously, aids in forming movements and marches in various parts of the country that were in accessible or unknown before, and influences the overall fight for equality and justice both in America and around the world.

Kelley, in *“Black Study, Black Struggle”* reiterates the oft forgotten fact that universities have always been intricately linked to the Eurocentric thought processes of this country, tied to corporate and military power responsible for the suffering of blacks and other minorities. He unleashes the depressing truth that universities cannot be safe havens in the way minority students wish them to be, for the university itself in an institute and instrument of oppression. To him, the true way to be an activist is to be *in* the university, but not *of* the university. To create programs like those at UCLA that allow black students to come together to dismantle the system, to remake their world, to fully comprehend and have discourse on various different viewpoints, to bring their knowledge to the streets.

Hearing from a key figure in the #BlackLivesMatter movement, *“A Herstory of the #BlackLivesMatter Movement”* by Alicia Garza illustrates how racism is used in practice by so-called allies of the movement. These 'allied' groups are responsible for the erasure of those such as black queer women, which in turn perpetuate the white patriarchal system we exist in today. Garza writes to have people such as these groups understand the relevance of the usage of the word black. Black have historically been the most oppressed group. When they are free, we are all better off. Erasure of black contributions and indeed the black suffering does not promote 'exclusivity'- instead, it harms the movement itself. 

Crockett, I’Nasah *‘Raving Amazons’: Antiblackness and Misogynoir in Social Media.* Similar to the Sharpe reading from last week, this reading also discusses the 'afterlife of slavery'. Detailing the surveillance and harassment of black women on Twitter, Crockett exposes how white feminism and troll groups such as 4Chan are responsible for these negative sentiments. Pulling from a book written 104 years ago that called black women Raving Amazons, savage with uncontrolled anger, Crockett questions whether any progress has truly been made with changing the white feminist mindset. 

### Reflection
The readings for this week touched on black struggle in the twitter sphere. While Twitter has been used as a great force for good, as proven by the rapid success of the Black Lives Matter movement, it has also become another platform for black individuals to be harassed. Twitter has become a vital platform for combating the effects of the 'after life of slavery' in our world today.

The Black Study, Black Struggle reading was especially interesting considering the university we attend and its problematic past and present. I really enjoyed the concept of minorities not painting themselves as victims to the point that they are unable to be agents for change. I was also pleasantly surprised to see the Undercommons mentioned again in this piece. 
### Expand
Closing out Black History month and the anniversary of Trayvon Martin's death, I found this art piece very thought provoking and sadly true. https://twitter.com/_JJtheJetPlane/status/835991459459448832
### Comment
To comment on Larson's lag lob for this week, I loved her expansion using the the now infamous picture of the young black woman defintly standing before the rushing riot police.
### Questions
* By definition, does the colour of our skin not make us activists fighting for just the right to live in this white dominated world? Then why does Kelley only address activists in the way he interprets the word?
* Will future textbooks include some aspect of what we have discussed in class, and particularly in these readings? Will they include the pros and cons of using social media in the Black Lives Matter movement?
* Are there any black activist movements out there that do not fall under the Black Lives Matter umbrella?
