Overview

*Vincent Brown, “Narrative Interface for New Media History: Slave Revolt in Jamaica, 1760-1761* 

Vincent Brown explains his multimedia historical project Slave Revolt in Jamaica within a larger context of analyzing and understanding multimedia history, and how it has changed the way people understand, circulate, and receive historical information today. He looks at the role of new media in the historical sphere, contemplating how it has changed how research is done, how people understand slave narratives that are often written from the white perspective in a new way using modern media tools, and how it offers new perspectives in understanding. Creating an interactive map of the Slave Revolt in Jamaica, Vincent Brown describes using traditional historical practices for shaping the project’s content and form, but producing and circulating it in a new way using new media platforms that require more collaboration, money, time, and labor, but manage to reach and inform audiences in new and faster ways. In the case of his project, imaging and movie software allowed him to show the history of the Jamaican slave revolt as an unfolding of events that allow viewers to analyze and understand the aims and dynamics of this slave insurrection by tracing it overtime through text and images. 
He places his multimedia historical project in the context of other modern historical projects that also create a collection of archival materials organized into databases that can be easily and quickly accessed by anyone on the Internet. He writes that digital historical archives receive less close and long-term attention than written texts, because it is much easier to get distracted on the Internet, but he highlights that new media projects of these kinds nonetheless lessen the ubiquity of white narratives explaining black stories, and offer a more comprehensive explanation. 

*Shannon Ean, “Kara Walker: Harper’s Pictoral History of the Civil War (Annotated)” 2013.* 

Shannon Ean provides an annotated account of Kara Walker’s Harper’s Pictoral History of the Civil War, explaining Walker’s motivation and thoughts behind creating her works of this kind, and what she hopes to accomplish in doing so. She calls into question the statement made by Alfred Guernsey and Henry Alden in the original edition of Harper’s Pictorial History of the Civil War that they will narrative the events just as they occurred, but in fact they left out significant information. Walker completes the story shown in the 19th century drawing by adding the people who were ignored, the women, children, and blacks, who also fought the fire, not just the men shown in the original work. Walker in this work and in all her silhouette works, draws a new perspective to the past by including the black subject as a contained for the pathology from the past and as a commentary on historical and present racist and sexist attitudes. Her figures tend to disrupt the original prints and intervene in the history, which encourage people to think about the issues of racism and sexism in a controversial and upfront, but telling way. 

*Seventeen Men: Portraits of Black Civil War* 

This current exhibition at the Evergreen Museum displays the faces and names of 17 Black soldiers who served under William Prickitt, a Union Army officer. These men heroically saved their officer from deadly sickness, and are documented originally in the officer’s photo album, but enlarged to life size drawings by contemporary artist Shayne Davidson displayed above a description describing each solider. The officer hoped to celebrate and remember the Black soldiers who saved his life, and carried it with him in his pocket. Their portraits are displayed among other Civil War-era items. 

Reflection

This group of readings and the exhibit highlight new modes of making history by using new media to understand historical narratives in a new ways. The exhibit at Evergreen Museum, Kara Walker’s work, and Vincent Brown’s Slave Revolt in Jamaica all serve as examples of uses of new media to understand history through a 21st century perspective. As informative as primary sources and personal accounts of the times can be, they hold various biases that can be effectively addressed through media and other artistic platforms. This group of readings can be understood alongside the readings on Space Traders and Raving Amazons, because they address antiblack sentiments seen in history, and understand them with the new technologies and research methods at our fingertips today. Art and visual expression can sometimes prove more informative than textual evidence, because it calls to mind a series of topics that are sometimes not efficiently covered in written works, or can be more powerfully evoked visually. 

Expand

These readings called to mind a Kara Walker exhibit I saw at the Metropolitan Museum in New York in 2006 when I was 10 years old. Although I did not understand nearly all (or most) of the historical, racial, and gender commentary, I remember being wowed at the amazing site-specific work she created in her show After the Deluge. I told my parents after that show that Kara Walker was my new favorite artist. She has the power to evoke so many complex historical and racial-tied concepts in her work that apply to the past and the contemporary, while appealing to all ages through her whimsical and powerful figures. 
http://1vze7o2h8a2b2tyahl3i0t68.wpengine.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Walker-Kara-Rise-Up-AIC-3_600.jpg
http://www.metmuseum.org/-/media/Images/Exhibitions/Temporary/KaraWalkerAtMet_KWUntitled96_534.JPG?w=1200&hash=5DCE9C6D60E81B1FAE6A8C842E0191A85B96FC9B

Questions 

1.	What exactly does Kara Walker mean when she describes her works as being able to be understood in terms of “racist pathology?” 
2.	What else besides lack of focus and commitment of time do we lose when relying on electronic databases and sources for our intel and research according to Vincent Brown’s reasoning? 
3.	Is William Prickitt’s deep appreciation for his black soldiers unique for the time, or is there other documentation of such praise and glory seen in other archives? 
