# OVERVIEW:
Kara Walker: Her work aims to edit Harper’s Pictorial History of the Civil War by creating silhouettes over the original Harper’s prints in order to incorporate a new understanding of the suffering of Black people that is missing from 19th century illustrations. Her work both defies the White and mainstream perception of the time period and perpetuates the stereotypes of the Black body.
Seventeen Men: Aneita Gates, the great-granddaughter of Captain William A. Prickitt, donated a pocket sized photo album of the Captain’s 17 African-American soldiers in the 25th Regiment of the USCT during the Civil War. It was an incredible national treasure because it revealed the identities of several African-American soldiers during a time when there was very little information of the identities of African-American soldiers at all. It also showed the appreciation that both the soldiers and the Captain had for each other. 
Mapping a Slave Revolt: Archives are not transparent reflections of the past, rather it holds a lot of information that could be interpreted in different ways. Brown discussed how archivists must be creative to represent the history of slavery through visual means such as media. Secondly, Brown discusses the importance of the interpretation of archives- emphasizing the difference between “what happened” and “that which is said to have happened.”
# REFLECTION:
Egan’s commentary on the work of Kara Walker is a viewpoint that I agree with. Before reading the text, I looked at the pictures first. The pictures instantly made me think of two things: 1) It is an outspoken and artistic backfire on the missing parts of American history. It seeks to remind Harper’s about who they forgot. 2) It reinforces the caricaturized depictions of Black people by overaccentuating the butts, the lips, their hair, etc. Upon reading Egan’s writing, I realized that many people also had these conflicting feelings about Walker’s work. Although I agree that the silhouettes do not help with changing the perception of Black people, I agree that the work is a strong statement about how American history must include Black history. 
Seventeen Men: The heirloom is an incredible reminder about the bond that Captain Pickett had with his African-American soldiers. During a time when the livelihood and the humanity of Black people were of little concern, this showed how there were still people who cared and wanted to remember the influence and importance of Black people in their lives. 
Brown states in his article that there are critics that claimed his project was a “reification of reifications.” In which he was trying to make the historical significance of the St. Mary revolts more important, or have more information that it actually did. I can understand that traditionalist archivists may see this type of archiving does not stay true to other, more popular documents. However, I believe, like Brown, that in the case of Black American history, it’s important to question whether the information given through archives can be taken at face value, or it is clouted with the White supremacist perceptions rampant during that time.
# EXPAND:
http://tinypic.com/r/zxv0rd/9
The picture I have included above is a wall mural I saw while in Chile. It looks a lot like the caricatures I’ve seen of Black slaves like Blackface, Zip Coon, or Sambo. For a place that seems to be mostly homogenous (at least of neighboring Spanish speaking countries) I was stunned to see this kind of portrayal of Black people. 
# COMMENT:
To answer Channing’s question “Is science fiction the only genre that can accomplish bridging our present day experiences with people of the past? In terms of American history, will we always need to tell these stories with elaborate metaphors for people (especially white people) to connect?”
My thinking is, yes, as of now it science fiction has been the only genre to subtly discuss American history. I think in this era when the film and movie industry has depended so much on sequels of movie classics/hits, money is the only thing in mind. Creating a movie that actually has historical depth or attacks the underlying racism/ historical incompleteness of American history won’t bring in much money. 
# QUESTION:
1.	How did the tiny photo album not get lost through the family line? It seems like, without a concrete understanding of the story behind the photos, someone who was careless would have lost it. Was there certain guidelines that each family member told when they passed it down?
2.	What are examples of Black archival “reification”?
3.	Is Kara Walker’s work iconic or repressive?
