# Overview
Interview with Kara Walker: The interview discussed how the project of the Domino Factory Sphinx came into being, what inspired her, how did she settle on a sphinx, and the use of sugar during the artistic process. Molasses and its significance of perpetuity as an element as well as its resonance with sugar and slave work related to sugar enticed Walker into taking on the project in New York. The Sphinx represents the historical significance of the mammy figure, the sexuality issues and representation of the sculpture, and lastly the connection of slaves with the sugar industry. 
Slavery and Abortion: Authors or their agents who use illustrations from Mary Evans Picture Gallery,
Corbis (Corbis-Bettmann), Hulton Archive (Radio Times Hulton Picture Library), the Bridgeman Art Library, or Getty Images frequently perpetuate bibliographic and historical errors. Handler and Steiner discuss how images created many generations ago have been stripped of the information and authenticity that they were first created with. Therefore, historical images do not “speak for themselves” because the primary source, the historical context, and conditions which the image was created needs to be known. 

Some could Suckle over Their Shoulder: 
Richard Ligon, planter, described black women with civility, grace, and beauty. This was a rhetoric that did not happen often in the 17th century. Later on, he also came to view women as being born purely as labor. His perception was a part of a larger goal to use race and gender to affirm Europe’s legitimate access to African labor. Morgan also discussed how travelers who would meet Black women in America for the first time would be surprised by how they actually looked. Many times the literature written about appearances of Black women, particularly about their breasts, were exaggerated or highly generalized. 
# Reflection
It doesn’t surprise me that historical pictures have taken out of context or used without proper descriptions. Archiving materials and passing on historical documents is almost like a game of telephone – in which you give someone an important piece of information and hope that they also pass it down. However, along the way, different people use different words, summarize, oversimplify, or overstate certain aspects of that piece of information that in the end turns the information into something completely different. 
# Expand
The article I included discusses the gender wage gap in Britain. This article reminded me of the reading “Some could suckle over their shoulder” because it discusses how men viewed women as laborers that did not deserve to be treated (and paid) the same way men were. 
Today, the difference between pay for women and men is about 10%. Change in decreasing the gap has been remarkably slow. Consultants estimated that it would take nearly 99 years to finally make equal pay for men and women. The government, unsatisfied with the progress (or lack thereof), decided to force companies to collect and publish data about gender pay gap, gender bonus gap, and a breakdown of how many women and men receive bonuses. 
# Comment
In response to Turquoise: “We have seen a lot of art in the past few weeks (Weems, Walker, BFAP etc.). Some create new concepts while others, notably Walker and Weems, add to relics of the past. Which do you find most impactful and why?”
Both are impactful and both cause me to reflect on Black history. The purpose, emotion, and reaction caused by both types serve the same goal which is to remember the past. The art is also the Black community’s attempt to revise the history books and to unravel the truth about what their people went through and are still going through. 

# Questions
1.	How does Kara Walker deal with the critics when they say she emphasizes or reprises old African caricatures that people of the Black community believe were dehumanizing?
2.	What kind of work goes into clarifying and researching the true meaning of old photos or drawings of African American history? How does an archivist know if the new information they discover about certain photos is actually true?
3.	Do you think the perception of Black women’s bodies have changed today?
