## Overview
### Kara Walker: Harper's Pictoral History of the Civil War (Annotated)
Kara Walker is an African American contemporary artist who made a different version of Harper's Pictoral History of the Civil War. She included bodies that the original artists chose to omit and challenged their notion of right and wrong. Her portrayal of black and white bodies differs from Harper's omission of black anguish and involvement by putting Black individuals at the forefront of the art in dramatic positions. The use of distortion and fragmentation is encorporated to depict the loss and suffering of Black people during the war, not previously focused upon.
### Evergreen Museum: 17 Portraits of Black Civil War Soldiers
The display of seventeen Black soldiers at the Evergreen museum seeks to glofiy and remember those who are often forgotten. Historians at the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture realized this sad but true fact and decided to make sure that these soldiers would not be forgotten and photos discarded. Shayne Davidson, a young artist, was researching a friend's family tree when he stumbled upon a miniature album of men from the 25th Infantry Regiment, United States Colored Troops, who served under Capt. William A. Prickett. Davidson saw value in creating life-like colored pencil portraits to represent these men as individuals, rather than just soldiers fighting for a military where they were in a very difficult position. He also includes as much biographical information as he could find to accompany these portraits.
## Reflection
These pieces of work relate to Black Code Studies in that they emphasize the underrepresenatation of Black individuals in media, whether it be historical artwork, films, books, etc. Black bodies are often mis- and under-represented in culture and aren't given credit where credit is due. For example, online trends are often attributed to a white person who makes them popular by making it into mainstream media because they are white, when in reality it was started by Black twitter or any Black individual. 
## Expand
https://www.facebook.com/blacklivesmatter1/videos/1644430502533207/?pnref=story This video shows an incident of violence by a white male against a black male caught on camera. The white bus driver beats up a black man asking a question for asking questions and proceeds to throw him off the bus. The man has not been charged with anything and is a perfect example of how easy it is to get away with violence against black people, even when it is caught on camera.  
## Comment
In response to @JRBrown2017, it's important for us to reimagine history in the way that Kara Walker does because minorities and oppressed people's are often left out of the narrative. There is an underrepresenation of black groups and individuals in history because the people creating these narratives are usually white and choose to focus on white history. Historical moments such as wars, political movements, and treaties/trade deals are all examples of when we should examine the accuracy of the representation of minorities in history.
## Question
* How can we ensure that opressed groups are not excluded from historical narratives and that these versions are the ones that are actually published for distribution in schools or hung up in museums?
* How would, or wouldn't, you imagine the exhibit be different if a white person had found the miniature album? 
* Do you think that Kara Walker's critics who say that she causes more division are understanding the meaning behind the art and still believe that, or do they dismiss her without understanding?
