## Lab Log #6 | Channing Kimble-Brown

### Overview

**"Chapter One: The Wake"**

* Christina Sharpe starts off this chapter giving us five different definitions of the word "wake" and relating each definition to her own life and having to deal with death and tragedy on a regular basis. She has lost family members to sudden death, illness, and gunshot (by both a civilian and a police officer). In the second section she discusses the classes she teaches as a professor. Students often find it difficult to extend the same empathy for Holocaust victims to North American Slaves since "they were cared for". She goes on to say that scholars studing slavery have to be wary of the silences and absences in the sources used for research because all of those sources, when used, will reinflict the antiblack violence that created them. The last section goes into detail about how the existance of black people is inextricably tied to several ideas of "wake" and our relationship to the dead. She explores this idea through what she calls the "orthography of the wake", which is a collection of creative and artistic work by black people about blackness and catastrophy. Sharpe ultimately sees the wake as black consciousness and our continuous efforts to process and somehow memorialize slavery its ever ongoing consequences.

**"Do You Know What It Means to Miss New Orleans?: Katrina, Trap Economics, and the Rebirth of the Blues"**

* Clyde Adrian Woods brings us into the paper by describing the racism and suffering of African Americans in the aftermath of Katrina as a blues moment. The blues has been by generation after generation to organize thoughts from throughout the black community on tragedy, followed by Jazz which builds on blues and provides some hope and meaning. This music was very important to the development of black intellectuals. Throughout the paper Woods provides blues lyrics describing harsh realities about American racism that the United States have tried to ignore or forget about. Woods dicusses "The Misery of Daily Life" and how the extreme poverty of black people in Louisiana and Mississippi is directly tied to governors protecting rich white people while cutting health care and antipoverty programs so black communities were suffering before Katrina even happened. Bill Clinton and George W Bush did the same thing at a federal level, cutting back all sorts of important social welfare. In the section called "Neoplantation Politics: That Ol' Black Magic" he says that problem with New Orleans is that the majority of their white voters are in favor of white supremacists like David Duke and vote them into office as legislators. In "Arbitrariness and Human Rights" Woods comments on black New Orleans residents dealing with arbitrariness as a result of weak federal authority and authoritarian states. This causes extreme violence and environment racism that disproportionately affects black people. When discussing "Cultural Imposition: On Becoming Savage and Postsavage New Orleans" Woods says that black music is simultaneously called savage and universal to the point of not belonging to black people. In the last section called "Gumbo Philosophy and the Third Reconstruction" Woods describes how after Katrina when white people were claiming that the reconstructed city would be better without black people, in addition to advocating for all sorts of human rights violations in the name of "improving" our country. In the face of this hatred, many black New Orleans natives felt compelled to return in honor of the almost spiritual nature of being connected to a place with such a profound history of black struggle and resilience.

---
### Reflection

I really appreciate how both of these pieces use poetry and song to emphasize or further explain their points. This style speaks to both Woods and Sharpe's claim that black art is essential to black working through tragedies and elevating the thought of black intellectuals. The fact that so much has been written about black suffering is should serve as a wake up call to listeners that something isn't right, but as Woods says, whenever black music or art is consumed anything too difficult to dissociate with blackness is demonized and anything non-black people decide they like has the blackness extracted so it can by "universal". No matter what the music or art's original purpose is erased. I also like the contrast in approaches the writers took to presenting their cases. Sharpe started off very personal and expanded the idea of constantly living in the wake of tragedy and what that means to how an entire race might feel that burden. Sharpe's story just seems to be tragedy after tragedy and then when she tells the story of her students not understanding the horrors of slavery, even after placing the lesson after the Holocaust lesson, it feels like she has ordered her own paper to ensure that people will properly empathize with black people and I think it's pretty effective. Woods' paper feels like it is an instance of the wake work that Sharpe generally talks about. New Orleans before, during and after Katrina are dealing with the repercussions of rampant unchecked racism that originates in the days of slavery and black people seem to be the the main people truly trying to learn from the past and stop the present day injustices that black New Orleans residents are dealing with.

---
### Expand

_-- See [@blkcodestudies](https://twitter.com/blkcodestudies) --_

---
### Comment

In regards to Dikshant's [first question](https://github.com/blackcodestudies/blkcodestudies/blob/master/lab_logs/week5/dikshantmallaweek5), it seems like neoplantation politics are growing evermore present by the day. Just a few hours ago I saw on Twitter that our Attorney General Sessions was presented with scathing reports of unconstituational policing practices in Ferguson and Chicago but he dismissed them without even reading them. This seems eerily similar to what Woods was saying about human rights being arbitrarily violated in New Orleans and primarily negatively affecting black people.

---
### Question
0. In terms of music, what would be the ideal? Black music is consumed and appropriated at an almost unfathomable scale around the world and it's difficult to imagine what respectful and non-appropriative consumption would look like. What can be done to achieve this ideal way of sharing black music, if there is one?
0. How do you feel about the term neoplantation? Have you heard it before? In what ways is this term appropriate for the topics that Woods discusses?
0. Sharpe seems to equate black consciousness and wake work, or at least see them as inseparable. Is it possible that this wake work will ever been done? Can black consciousness exist without it?
