#Lab Log Week 5: The Wake & The Blues
####Ellie Strauss

##**Overview** 

*Christina Sharpe: "Chapter One: The Wake”* 

In Chapter one of her book In the Wake: On Blackness and Being, Christina Sharpe describes her family’s experience with Black violence, loss, and segregation as a demonstration and symbol of the larger racial problems in our country and our world today. She discusses the idea and relevance of the wake in all senses of the word, as the ceremony to celebrate and contemplate the life and pain of deceased loved ones, as the consciousness of an “unfinished project of emancipation,” as a way to acknowledge, live, and underline the continued existence and relevance of slavery and racial inequality even after emancipation and civil rights, and as a way of understanding slavery violence and its relevance when appreciated the endurance of anti-blackness today. Looking specifically at daily situations and disasters experienced by Blacks, Sharpe emphasizes the need for individuals and Black scholars in particular to think through problems in an undisciplined way to understand, enter, and undo slavery. She hopes to collect and map archives of everyday Black racism and death and look at the ways Blacks resist and disrupt violence and racism instead of merely piecing together partial truths the archives that are often misnamed and falsified. She sees personal accounts of her kind as important to understand the Black experience as a whole, sharing her loss of 4 family members within 10 months of each other as proof of the anti-Black struggle and experience with violence. 

*Clyde Adrian Woods: “Do You Know what it Means to Miss New Orleans? Katrina, Trap Economics, and the Rebirth of the Blues.”* 

Clyde Woods discusses the mass suffering of Black people particularly in the United States from the times of slavery up to Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath. He emphasizes how Hurricane Katrina and the absence of a proper response to address the crisis, specifically the lack of help for working-class Black New Orleans habitants and black kids who saw this tragedy as a defining moment in their lives. This natural disaster’s location in New Orleans caused a huge identity crisis for Black culture, because this city is key in the development of the Blues tradition after the Civil War, Emancipation, and Reconstruction, as Blacks saw this genre as a means to confront daily effects to describe the truths of working class American life and the lack of racial-blind social progress. This Blues Movement developed contrary to neoplantation development tradition, trap politics, and social philosophy that aimed to confirm racialized impoverishment, racial dependency, enclosure and displacement, and cultural imposition.
The fact that this deadly hurricane happened in such a prideful African American city tarnishes New Orleans’ image as a strong African American power and cultural hell. Especially when looking at the aftermath of the Hurricane, many of the African Americans locals were the ones with the most hardships and destruction, but also with the least help. The Rebirth of the Blues and several independent liberal groups today honor African American sacrifice and courage and create “communities of consciousness,” but these ideals are still not commonplace. 

##**Reflection** 

The readings showed me the personal accounts and reflections on Black lives. Especially Woods’ discussion of New Orleans post Katrina reminded me of Brad Pitt’s initiative to build houses that were destroyed, but to pain them pink to make sure that everyone knew it was he and his team who had done so. It is interesting when looking at the motives of counter neoplantation development of this kind, to understand why celebrities and groups do what they do: form the goodness of their hearts and out of sincere concern, or more for the attention and press they receive. I found Sharpe’s multi-use of the word wake to explain Blackness and anti-black historical and contemporary sentiment fascinating. It is true when thinking about the many police altercations and violent crimes committed on Black victims, so many names immediately come to mind, and there are so many more that are not on our instant radar. Sharpe makes us aware of this concept, and encourages us to be more avidly cognizant of this issue today. 

##**Questions** 

1.	What would Christina Sharpe think of the Oscars screw-up last night, which at first granted the classic Hollywood movie “La La Land” best picture, but quickly realized their mistake and awarded it to “Moonlight?” Is this a step in the right direction in the “unfinished project of emancipation?”
2.	What exactly is the concept that Woods describes as “trap economies” and its role in Black lives, particularly in New Orleans? 
3.	In what ways is Blues music a similarly prideful and identifiable genre of music and form of expression for Blacks in Louisiana and Mississippi according to Woods? 
