**Lab Log 6**

**Overview**

Sharpe Reading

I spent a lot of time and re-read several passages piece together Sharpe’s argument in chapter 1 of In the Wake.  Immediately, I noticed the image of a structure made up of falling pieces of black wood. These fragmented pieces appear to create a larger object. I do not know if Sharpe provides a reason for her inclusion of this piece (I could have missed that discussion), but perhaps it fits into part of her discussion on the fragmented nature of her own family, as a reflection of the disunion of the larger African diaspora. Sharpe presents several definitions for the word “wake.” It refers to the track left on the water’s surface by a ship, a state of wakefulness or being alert, the process of honoring/celebrating a deceased member of one’s family, and a form of work that insists and performs related to thinking and care. Sharpe mentioned “Living in the Wake” as the phenomenon by which Black people become “carries of terror” and terror’s embodiment. She uses examples of random acts of violence inflicted on people of Black Americans, coining the term “weaponized sidewalks.” The terror is twofold: It is the terror the Black American feels as they navigate through a society that seeks their destruction. It is also the terror of the Black body that have been internalized by white supremacist narratives of the brutish nature of Black people. 

While attempting to explain her theory, Sharpe provides readers with several personal anecdotes to convince readers of her theory’s implications on daily reality. She speaks on the reoccurrence of deaths in her family, a total of six that she mentioned. Stephen, Sharpe’s brother, suffered from mesothelioma, a rare and environment induced form of cancer. Stephen began working at 14 in what I will assume was a Rust Belt factory, plant or an institution of an occupation lost to technological advances and the government’s suppression of labor movements. It is possible, though Sharpe does not make speculations, that Stephen contracted the disease from his early work days. She explains that Black workers often take up employment in precarious jobs, often at a hazard to their health. Working class Black Americans also face barriers to health care and access to care at a higher rate than other ethnic-income groups in the country. Nearing death, Sharpe comments that her family needed to make Stephen as comfortable as possible, as medical professionals have neglected Black health and suffering, almost as if it does not exist.  

Woods Reading

Clyde Woods offers a wonderful explanation of the erasure of Black New Orleans culture in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. However, Woods clarifies the corporate takeover of New Orleans is not a development of Katrina, but the pinnacle of an historic trend to remove the Black existence of the Louisiana Delta. Katrina exposed the United States’ fragile multiculturalism that was not rooted in any serious social justice movement or reform, but of the silencing of vocal vulnerable populations in New Orleans. Woods writes Katrina transformed African-American back into black people, distinction which is profound for a white gazer. Referring to an American of African descent as “black” takes away the “Americanness” in hyphenated identities. Black creates a distance between Afro-Americans and other social classes, particularly the combined class of white-Americans. This distinction also makes white terror on the Black American more justifiable in the eye of the white terrorist. Thus, Katrina presented these white gazers and their Black allies with an opportunity to complete their grand project of displacing and erasing working class Black residents without the any government ordinance or mandates, but a natural disaster ordained by God as Franklin Graham remarked. 
	
Woods also spends time on his passion and appreciation for blues music. Blues, he argues, is “a newly indigenous knowledge system” that has endured and is a uniquely Black working class tradition.  Blues music has always confronted white supremacy and expressed the silent sorrows of the larger Black American community. One could consider blues a coded language, a language that appealed to a mainstream audience, but also a language only internalized and felt in the way of moving one’s spirit and assuaging the fears of and communicating messages to blues’ Black listeners. Thus, Woods considers blues music as a form of social justice and social investigate, seeking to remedy the themes expressed in blues lyrics. 

**Reflection**

I struggled to identify Sharpe’s central argument because of her complex writing style. I do not think book is not meant for a wider audience, but is for a unique set of academics who are familiar with her language and the history that she referenced in In the Wake. My point is not to suggest that I did not enjoy the sections of the chapter that I understood. I was touched that Sharpe used personal experiences to explain her theory. She traces historical inequities and matches those inequities to members of her family. I still am not sure what I am supposed to gain from this chapter. I do not have a clear understanding of wake. 

I preferred Woods’ article. The subject matter was easier to digest, but I am not implying that the article was a walk in the park. I found myself at times writing in my notes on how the language of Katrina era Republicans and Reagan Republicans is being replicated by Donald, the individuals who occupy the White House and members of the Republican Party. The rhetoric of RNC Chair Lee Atwater is the rhetoric of Trump. The comments Bill Bennett who essentially called for a genocide of Black Americans is not far off from having Donald and Jeff Sessions threaten to deploy federal law enforcement to Chicago or any of the victims of police violence since and before Bennett’s comments were made. 

Let’s think about Bennett’s position for a second: He served as Reagan’s Secretary of Education and was Bush 41’s Drug Czar. Black Americans rely on public education as really the only free resource that provides an opportunity for intellectual development and sometimes it’s not even that good. As Drug Czar, Bennet controlled the White House’s policy of eradicating illicit drug use, creating anti-drug propaganda and establishing crimes for drug related offensives. Bennett made those comments that Woods referenced in 2005. I can only imagine how his attitude was during his tenure in government. However, I am not surprised by the parallels between Republicans of past generation and current ones.   

**Comment**

To answer Dikshant’s question about neoplantation politics, I will offer two examples. Woods uses the example of the Congressional Black Caucus’ support of President Clinton weakening of the welfare state and increase in criminalization of their own constituents. I think the silver lining of Donald is his transparency. He’s a racist, misogynist, sexual predator and an all-around idiot. Black government officials are more embolden in the objection to Donald’s rule than attempting to work across the aisle in pursuit of bipartisan b.s. that will probably not help Black Americans in the long run. 

On the other hand, and maybe this contradicts my last statement, but a among the conservative elite, there appears to be a blasé reaction to Donald’s question month in office. Mitch McConnell lacks a spine to call out Donald when it obvious that he lacks knowledge on key issues. Jason Chaffetz refuses to investigate the Donald and his cabinet’s ties to Russia, which we now know were more developed than thought to believe. These two can be viewed as overseers in government, allowing Donald to enact his policies without object. 

**Questions**

* Sharpe describes blacks being in the wake as a form of consciousness (or maybe I am mistaken) . Is her point suggesting that our notions of blackness are at a crossroads where the current terror associated with Blackness is being removed amongst Black Americans because Black Americans are awakening to an awareness that decries blackness as terror?

* What does it mean to defend the dead? In terms of film and television, does defending the dead mean continuing to tell narratives of black oppression? Some critics of slave narratives and other stories of oppression claim that these narratives are not the only histories to be told? Is there merit to that argument?

* While reading Woods’ description of New Orleans in the post-Katrina world, did you notice any parallels to Hopkins’ role in Baltimore after the Freddie Gray uprising? 

