# Overview

* *In the Wake: On Blackness and Being*, Chapter 1: The Wake, Christina Sharpe

The book begins with moving dedications to the people closest to Christina Sharpe and her readers. She goes on to explain and show the readers her unfortunate history and its repetition. Sharpe spends time discussing her early childhood and how living with her multiple siblings with minimal money made schooling for all of them an uphill battle. During this introduction she mentions the multiple defintions of the word wake, drawing them to her own life. After going over the open-ended death of her nephew she asks and answers the question of what repurcussions come from normalizing the murders of black lives. With this in mind she recounts her older brother's time before dying and ties one of the various definitions of the word wake. After this she moves to the relative present as she discusses her students' aversion to being sympathetic towards slavery in North America as opposed to the events of the Holocaust. Sharpe shows her students the movie *Shoah* in an attempt for them to see their own actions mirrored back to them. She then defines how it feels to be *in* the wake and how to take part in something she calls "wake work." She eventually draws a conclusion at the fact that a wake is really just a disturbed flow in some way, shape, or form, and that the struggle of black individuals should be seen as such. 

* Do You Know What it Means to Miss New Orleans?: Katrina, Trap Economics, and the Rebirth of the Blues, Clyde Woods 

This brief section of a long form article by traces the connection between the cause of the birth of blues and the tragedy of Katrina. Clyde Woods begins this article with the idea that blues was the disruption of the everyday, it was an escape from the harsh realities that were presented to black people while also being a way to document the same realities. Woods then goes on to describe these all too similar realities that were worsening by the year after Katrina. Going back to blues, he expalins that its birth was dependent on the existence of the post Civil War America, Emancipation, and the "overthrow of Reconstruction" (1008). Woods then defines the 9 lenses of blues and how they relate to Katrina. Consistently referring back to the term "neoplantation," he recalls the situations that left thousands of African Americans turned blacks helpless for days because of white superiority. He describes the rampant use of stifling legislative power, from the election of racist Congressmen to the extreme Laissez Faire attitude from the federal government to the state governments of Mississippi and Louisiana. Woods concludes his piece with a mentioning of the "Gumbo" mentality that began to preside over MS and LA between Natives and black people, in a way to provide for themselves what the governement has yet to: hope. 

# Reflect 

In reading these two pieces a greater sense of urgency came upon me than in the other readings. With the past assignments I've felt more like a passive listener and observer as opposed to someone who can actually facilitate in the process of change. The information was defintely useful to me and helped me grow as a person, but the content discussed events that happened so far back it felt like I was looking into a rabbit hole that had a glass cover through which I couldn't break or even fracture. With these readings that dettached feeling did not accompany them. What Woods' article reminded me of was the entire idea of afrofuturism. In fact, I would be remissed to say that blues : post-Civil War :: afrofuturism : 90s. Both genres played an active role in history keeping and escapism for their relative time periods, which I think would be a direct application of a digital resonance. 

# Comment 

In response to Ellie's first question, about whether Sharpe would think of *Moonlight*'s Oscar win as a step towards emancipation, I believe that the only answer is yes. Going off of only what I've heard about the movie and extensive readings of analyses that I've found, *Moonlight* winning a mainstream award is a huge leap in the right direction towards complete freedom. The movie is too unprecedented to be cast to the side and the fact that a still not very diverse committee can see that is phenomenal. However, I will say that the mix up si going to place a veil over the content of the movie. By this I mean that many people who have not seen the movie will only think of it as part of the huge Oscar mix up, as opposed to a masterful film about the black queer boys and men. 

# Question

* Which defintion of wake came first, the one concerning conciousness or the mourning of a death?
> I wrote a slam poem about this my senior year of high school and I personally think it's baller
* On the subject of the War on Drugs, has any apology been made by/on the behalf of the Clinton's for ruining entire cities and families? If not, will there ever will be?
* Who was in charge of the FBI while Katrina happened, and what was their opinion of John Edgar Hoover? (The first director of the FBI, who coincidentally was also head during MLK's and Malcom X's assassinations)
