# Overview
Fabiola Jean-Louis
Jean-Louis’ photographic collection reflects the dresses that female nobility used to wear between the 15th and 19th centuries. It’s ironic because the models in the dresses are black females who, though styled their hair in the same large and peacockish way of white women, still flaunted their braids. In each photo, there is also items that reflect and remind the viewer of the horrid treatment of Blacks throughout history. For example, in the second photo there is a basket of cotton, in the fourth cloth that says “Cannot be Conquered”, and in the sixth - a miniature sculpture of a lynching. These photos confront the inequality and injustices that Blacks have lived with because of their race. 
Reparation as transformation: Radical literary (re)imaginings of futurities through decolonial love – Yomaira C. Figueroa
This article discusses the theoretical literature of how Western civilizations can and have tried to repay African-descendants in previously colonized areas such as the Caribbean. Decolonial love is the idea that if you recognize humanity, remain true to the ethics of a liberated life, and by decolonizing to create a “transmodern world” in which “many worlds fit.” In addition, decolonial love means you must be willing to take genuine action. You must recognize the violence of the past and present to move forward and correct the wrongs done previously. Figueroa discusses how the works of Ernest Quiñonez’s Bodega Dreams and Donato Ndongo’s El metro. The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, and Matinga: sangre en la selva take on decolonial love. These texts tell stories that “critique the volatile and often violent nature of postcolonial governments and their effects on national subjects on the island and in the diaspora.”
Feminist Archives – Alexis Gumbs
Gumbs discusses how public and academic archives should not be depended on for Black feminists, especially queer Black feminists. The Eternal Summer of the Black Feminist Mind makes published, out-of-print, archived, and previously undocumented Black feminist strategies, poems, essays, newsletters, and practices accessible to a diverse community of parents, teachers, workers, organizers, and writers. They do this by blogging, writing magazines, conducting workshops, making videos, etc. She also discusses where and how the Feminist Archives have made their influence and importance known. 
My History in History – Deborah Gray White
White tells the story of her personal experience in the education system, the effect of color on other’s perceptions of her, and how being a historian has influenced her life. She felt different treatment in her classes because teachers did not think she was intelligent. Her classmates in college thought they were superior to her because they had higher GPAs. The pressure of being a mother and having a career hindered her from feeling like she was enjoying both parts of her life. She proves through her own life experience that the strength and fragility of African American women is unparalleled. 
Race, Discourse, and the Origin of the Americas – Sylvia Wynter
Wynter discusses how 1492 was a pivotal year for the expansion of European colonialism and the demise and discourse that indigenous habitants would suffer because of it. For religious, genetic, and geographic reasons, the hindering of conquered people has been a justified act. The system was legitimized until nearly the 1960s in which a true movement towards equality in America has challenged the “stereotyped images” left from the violations of 1492. 
# Reflection
Fabiola Jean-Louis
I think this collection is very well crafted. I am in a photography class right now and I can see that there was a modernistic approach to the development of these photos. They were probably made using HDR technology to make her characters really pop to life in a spooky/haunting way. In contrast to Kara Walker’s work, who is more outgoing and controversial in her approach to reclaiming Black history through art, Jean-Louis is more subtle with her approach. Her photos contain Easter eggs that make it a more involved experience for the viewer. 
Figueroa 
I thought that using the literature of Oscar Wao humanized the issues of colonialization into a relatable narrative. In these stories, decolonial love is what the characters can’t achieve. They can’t find themselves able to love others. For example, Yunior found himself unable to confront his witness to sexual violence which prevents him from reaching intimacy with Lola. In this novel, the question of “is it possible to overcome the legacy of slavery?” is prevalent. It makes sense that, even though colonialism is mostly over in the Caribbean, the remnants of the impact of its presence still plagues the Black population. 
Feminist Archives
I thought this was a good overview and resource to find information about archival materials written or created by Black feminists. It links to digital media as well as traditional archives that are important and useful for Black feminists today. In our discussions, before about slavery and “corrupting” the data that has been created by white influence, this relates to how Blacks have decided to take control of their own history, their own data, their own voice to be sure that what they want to leave behind is not left up to a race, gender, or class that doesn’t approve of them/care to save their work. 
My History in History
White’s story is a relatable journey that I can identify with. As someone who watched my immigrant parents struggle to make a life in a tough and often times judgmental society, White proves that there is a special resilience that women have that is undeniably powerful. I think that White’s message at the end is important, “African American history, women’s history, and African American women’s history may be ignored, even demeaned… Telling Histories may be ignored, but it will not be disappeared.” White emphasizes that it doesn’t matter if people don’t listen to what you’re saying because in the end, it will remain in existence so that someday, in the future, someone will listen.
Race, Discourse, and the Origin of the Americas – Sylvia Wynter
This reading was actually very difficult to understand because of the complex language. However, I understand the surface level material about how racial divides formed as a result of a long history of European conquest, how these divides were a result of beliefs based on religion, eugenics, and geographical superiority. 

# Expand
http://amp.dailycaller.com/2017/04/20/university-students-want-free-tuition-for-blacks-as-reparations-for-slavery/?+Morning+Evening
This article discusses how students want free tuition from universities to repay for their disadvantages as a result of slavery. 

# Comment
In response to Turquoise’s question: “Is the black American community still reluctant to look within itself and to self-criticize?”
I think the Black American community will be the first to self-criticize. They are hyper aware of racial disputes and injustices that take place purely on the color of your skin. Unlike privileged races, Blacks constantly live and are aware of the circumstances of identity and belonging. 
# Questions
1.	Is there more to decolonial love than just being understanding and accepting of each other? How can we provide reparations through love in an effective way?
2.	Is there archives dedicated to other colors of feminists such as Hispanic or Asian?
3.	In regards to White’s My History in History  how has her independence from a man and resilience as a successful, educated mother impacted her daughter’s views on education, career, and relationships?
