## Overview
### Deborah Gray White, "My History in History," Telling Histories, 85-100
In this section of her book, White describes the events in her life that lead up to where she is currently. She begins with her education in an all girls school and follows with her acceptance and enrollment in a university where, like her primary years, others did not think she was intelligent because she was a black girl. She had to work harder than others and they still looked down upon her because she didn't have as high of a GPA or other reasons. She writes history through her own and displayed the resilience of the black woman in America. 
### Wynter, Sylvia. "1492: A new world view." Race, discourse, and the origin of the Americas: A new world view (1995): 5-57.
Wynter begins by introducing 1492 as a pivotal year in history with two distinct viewpoints -- one of the white colonizing world that believed that Colombus was a great explorer and that it was an era of discovery, and the other that it was the beginning of European (white) colonization of indigenous and non-white peoples. She explains how colonization was excused as exploration and that it was seen as such until recently when people started to view it as a wrong that caused extreme suffering for indigenous peoples.
### Figueroa, Yomaira C. "Reparation as transformation: Radical literary (re) imaginings of futurities through decolonial love." Decolonization: Indigeneity, Education & Society 4, no. 1 (2015).
Figueroa analyzes how Junot Diaz and Joaquin Bacheng view reparations to descendants of slaves and previously colonized peoples in the Caribbean and other parts of the Americas. She states that for there to be long term reparations there must be decolonial love: a love that exists which acknowledges the violence that was committed and the humanity of the people who it was committed against. The only way to move forward and make real reparations is to realize the differences and have love despite and because of it all.
### Gumbs, How She Knew, Spill: Scenes in Black Feminist Fugitivity
Gumbs writes this piece about how Black Feminists, Womanists, and especially Black queer feminists cannot and should not depend on already available archives and resources because they were not created for them. She highlights online platforms where black queer feminist writers can express their research and thoughts in a place where their ideas are welcome. These spaces are so that previously undocumented and ignored black feminist work can be remembered and available to all. 
### Fabiola Jean-Louis - Rewriting History
Jean-Louis' work puts black and other minority women as the spotlight of art (photography) pieces that resemble 15-19th century artwork in which only white, upper class folks were featured. Her goal is to "interrogate the reality of white capitalist patriarchy, the value of black lives, as well as, celebrate the black and brown female body" and juxtaposes Black nobility with the atrocities that were committed against black and brown people throughout history. Also, the subjects all look at the photographer, unlike in traditional paintings of nobility, which demands attention and reclaims the power of the black and brown female.
## Reflection
These pieces of work aim to rewrite how black individuals are viewed by reclaiming the history of african americans throughout the americas. This connection to black fugitivity is clear as it is taking what was forced to be and changing it into what ought to be. It tackles the ideas that have been entrenched into society by white conquerors and changes it into how black history is viewed from the point of view of a black individual.
## Expand
https://hyperallergic.com/355946/rewriting-film-history-with-two-decades-of-black-womens-cinema/ 
## Comment
In response to Turqoise "Could the reason that Jean-Louis uses paper as the mode for the dresses be because of its mallebility? (Similar to that of black peoples resolve over centuries of maltreatment?)", I think that the reason she uses paper is because it is supposed to signify change and growth. The dresses and the place in nobility is just the first step.  
## Question
* Do you think that Deborah White thanks affirmative action in an almost sarcastic manner because she thinks that it should be expected that reparations in that way should be paid, or is she sincerely thankful for affirmative action?
* Do you think decolonical love is too simplistic of a way to think of reparations? 
* Why do you think that Fabiola Jean-Louis did not include other colonialized peoples, such as Pacific Islanders? 
