## Lab Log #10 | Channing Kimble-Brown

### Overview

**Pumzi**

* In this short film, a female Kenyan scientist in a dystopian future is living in this self-sustainable facility where everyone powers the building through excersize and recycles their own water because there is a massive drought and no life outside. It starts with her dreaming of plant life and then waking up to the computer telling her to take her dream suppressants. She goes to work at a lab and recieves a package with soil that has high water content that can make plants grow and gives her visions of water and life. She asks the council if she can get an exit visa to go look for the source but they say no and destroy her lab, dragging her from it, telling her to take dream suppressants again. She eventually decides to sneak out on her own. She finds the place she dreamed about to discover that there's only dead trees. So with the last of her bodily fluid and strength, she plants the tree she brought and waters it and then tries to give it some shade with her shawl before she collapses. Time passes, and the tree grows.

**Brother from Another Planet**

* In this movie, an alien that looks like a black man finds himself in Ellis Island and makes his way to Harlem, unable to speak and missing a foot. As his foot grows back he hops around, no people around. He eventually grows his foot back wiht three toes and pointy toenails and he finds shows to wear. He makes his way to this bar and meets some black men that connect him with a man that can get him a job after they discover he has a talent for fixing things, though they aren't fully aware he's using magic. Throughout the movie he meets various people of earth of various ethnicities, all projecting onto him what they want or expect to hear because he never says a single word. There are aliens that look like white people chasing him, like some kind of space police officers. It turns out that the black man was a slave on another planet and he escaped to Earth

**Space Traders**

* This film is an adaptation for the short story "Space Traders" and has a very similar plot. Aliens come to earth asking for all of the US's black people in exchange for financial, environmental and energy security. Several groups immediately fall onto the pro or anti trade side and the movie documents the days it took to make a decision and how that decision was implemented. In the movie the differences included only having five days to decide, there was no amendment ratification,  black conservative professor Golightly has children, there's a melanin concentration threshold (basically darker than a paper bag and you're off to space). Families are torn apart, the white corporate elite is pressed because they actually benefit a lot from the unfortunate state of the world as it is, but the government and middle to lower class white people see this as an opportunity to get rid of people they see as a burden. A group of anti trade people gather to discuss how to fight but when Golightly offers a plan to trick white people into letting them stay, he is dismissed. Eventually it is decided that black people will go and the US government rounds up all of its darker black citizens and hand-delivers them to the aliens.

**"Saying‘ Yes’: Textual Traumas in Octavia Butler’s Kindred"**

* Marisa Parham writes about the idea of people of the present relating to historical traumas. She says that we seem to approach stories with the attitude that we can't really enjoy or appreciate something unless we can identify with it. And as a result, people tend to look at slavery as an opportunity to distance themselves from the slaves that allegedly let themselves be enslaved, and the slaveholders that were responsible for doing terrible things. And since we kind of refuse to see ourselves in the narratives of slaves, we cannot really understand how that affects our present day culture. Parham explores the science fiction genre and specifically Octavia Butler's work in Kindred to convey how it can provide a way for readers to understand historical narratives and decrease that distance. In Kindred, the protaganist is a black writer named Dana that has just married a white man and finds herself repeatedly being sent to the past to save a distant white ancestor that owned and raped her distant black ancestor. She's caught in this really complicated situation of having to save this man that she wouldn't exist without but who is actively causing her harm by calling her back to the past every time his life is in danger. And the only way for her to return to the present is to believe her own life is in danger. Parham says that Dana in many ways becomes the text that we read to experience the past and gives us a way to say yes to experiencing and learning from the trauma in the text while maintaining our identity and not distancing ourselves further from history. 

---
### Reflection

All of these films and the writing were really interesting to me, especially since I personally consume science fiction (and it's cousin, fantasy) really often on my own time. I'm so used to kind of vague metaphors that use black experiences to get more "universal" themes across but rarely are they this explicit about exploring blackness. Since I'm currently writing this having watched/read everything before our class but just now being able to write my reflection, I can't stop thinking about what they were saying about compressing that theoretical blackness with blackness in practice. THhe visual and the metaphorical. Space Traders took a very old concept of aliens coming to earth and kind of flipped the narrative. Usually aliens are a lot more like black people, strange and different and untrustworthy to the average human. Often posing some sort of threat. But in this case it's like white people passed the baton to the aliens and they are carrying on the tradition of buying black people for whatever purpose they deem worthy. White people become the foreign ones, making decisions for black people that will have multigenerational effects to the (short term at least) benefit if white people and at whatever expense is necessary to black people, and all without black's people's input. I didn't get to actually see the end of Brother from Another Planet but I saw most of it and read a summary of the end. The whole story kind of takes our own culture and makes it foreign to us as an audience, seeing Harlem through the lens of the Brother that is escaping from slavery. If the Brother represents our history with slavery and racism, I suppose the story kind of literally shows people trying to exploit it and give it unbased interpretations without really being able to understand or communicate with the people that actually went through it. Both of these stories, I think, connect very strongly to Parham's point about using science fiction as a way to facilitate almost tricking people into empathizing with black people from the past by placing historical traumas in present day or even futuristic narratives that we can actually see ourselves in. Pumzi seems a little different in that it's all about a small group of Kenyans and the importance of choosing nature over technology and an isolating strive for self sufficiency. It doesn't so much help us orient ourselves relative to the past so much as the present, since in the story the our present is their past. We can see our potential future in this and since the future hasn't happened yet, we can project our own identities into it as much as we want without feeling alienated.

---
### Expand

Found this list of black science fiction writers at this [link](http://www.fantasticstoriesoftheimagination.com/a-crash-course-in-the-history-of-black-science-fiction/) in case anyone was interested.

--- 
### Comment

Tejiri's [first question](https://github.com/blackcodestudies/blkcodestudies/blob/master/lab_logs/week7/tejirismithLL10.md) is interesting because I grew up in predominantly non-white spaces everywhere while being raised by parents that grew up in predominantly black spaces at home with my extened family or in black neighboorhoods and predominantly white spaces at school/work. I feel like they've trained me and just life experience has trained me to be hyper alert when I'm in the vast minority. Whether it's an academic or social setting, I try to not seem to confrontation, to loud, to aggressive. It usually isn't conscious either, like in the moment I'm automatically monitor my behavior and then later upon reflection alone or talking with black people that I'm close to I'll usually wish I had a more genuine reaction.

--- 
### Question 

0. Is science fiction the only genre that can accomplish bridging our present day experiences with people of the past? In terms of American history, will we always need to tell these stories with elaborate metaphors for people (especially white people) to connect?
0. Parham talks about Octavia Butler's work being a really good way of connecting us to past traumas in ways that don't conflict with our personal identities. Are there other authors that have written things like this? 
0. I'm just curious, how do you think black conservatives would feel about Space Traders film or story? Do you think most of them would identify with Golightly? Are they less community focused than Space Traders give them credit for? Is it hard to say because they are conservative for lots of different reasons?
