# Lab Log Week 7
* "Space traders" by Derrick Bell
Derrick Bell tells a fictional story where an alien race comes to Earth and offers the United States Federal Government useful economic and scientific resources in exchange for African Americans to go with the aliens in the unknown land. When the president gathers a team of consultants to assess the deal, he includes his token black conservative professor Dr.Golighty. Initially, Dr. Golighty urges the president to not take the deal because of the ambiguity associated with it, however after much subtle pressure from other consultants, he gives in and convinces himself that this would be a good way to give African Americans "hope" for a future. Later there is much economic concern as the loss of an entire racial group could significantly damage the sustanibility of the economy however in the end  on Martin Luther King day, 70% of Americans voted  in support of the deal and allowed the traders to take all African Americans into the unknown land. 

* "Ellen Craft's Radical Techniques of Subversion" by Uri McMillan
McMIllian tells the story of William and Ellen Craft, a married African American slave couple in Georgia, who escaped slavery and ultimately became anti-slavery advocates. William and Ellen devised a plan where Ellen was to appear as a white man, Mr. Jonson, and William was supposed to be her slave. The couple realized that their only chance at successfully escaping required them to be opaque. Throughout the article McMillian develops the "prosthetic performance" Ellen uses o subvert her femininity, pretending to be deaf so white men would not hear her high pitch voice. In this way, McMillian is focusing on how a performance of whiteness, and specifically performance of a white men allowed for a successful escape.  

* "Raving Amazons: Anti Blackness and Misogynoir in Social Media" by I'Nasah Crockett
In this article, Crockett begins with a passage from Frank Wilderson to state that the structures of society are anti-black; that the very foundation of America society is based on the exploitation and marginalization of black people. She says in order to deal with the lived reality if an anti-black society, black people, especially black women, use social media sites as a way to connect to one another and share their lived experiences. While this is affirming and empowering in many ways, Crockett argues that it also can have harmful effects given the backlash they face in social media sites. Also important is how social media continues to every targeting and surveilling of black people.


# Reflection
* I really enjoyed Derrick Bell's piece because the piece provided a reflective element on American society. One point I would like to focus on is the aspect of "democracy" where the vote breakdown is 70-30. I think Bell's piece is an excellent criticism against theories of utilitarianism, where actions are guided by principle of greatest good for the greatest number. I think this theory is flawed because in society there is an asymmetry of racial composition hence when the language and composition of a legislation is targeted towards specific racial groups, it will always favor the majority. For instance, if we look at the difficulty in reforming police practices, with body cameras and greater accountability for police, while the language is not specific to African Americans there is an underlying tone that the need for these reforms are based on racial discrimination. For an average white person from Middle America, who is not exposed to police discrimination, they are unwilling to support these reforms because for them their interaction with the police is normal. So when push comes to shove, they are not going to vote for these legislations, and when majority of voters are not African Americans they are not going to see the need to vote for these. This is not me saying that every individual who is not African American is not going to vote for the legislation but rather that majority are not going to because they are not exposed to the language of that legislation. 

# Expand
* When reading McMillian piece on performance, I thought about the film Paris is Burning, one of my favorite documentaries. I thought about how in the movie, many individuals talk about their experiences with being targeted and abused by men. As McMillian noted Ellen could get away with her performance because dressing up as a white man she became non threatening to white men, but its interesting to note how when individuals engage in performance the other way around (men dressing as women or being feminine) ignorant men perceive that as a threat to their masculinity. 

# Comment
* To answer JB's first question, literally the society that we live in right now is indicative of this "dystopian" story. If we look at the elections, the underlying narrative we are faced with is that white people make decisions based on their self preservation and ignore the repercussions of others needs.

Questions
1. Do you think Ben Carson could be perceived as  the real life version of Dr. Golighty?
2. What roles do other minority groups play in Bell's story? 
3. What does the fact that majority of American, including minorities voted for African Americans to go to an unknown location? Is this a product of the white supremacist state?  
