**Lab Log #9**

**McMillan Reading**

Uri McMillan discusses the performative politics of William and Ellen Craft’s ingenious plan to escape their enslavement. The Crafts were married Georgian slaves who lived on neighboring plantations. They knew that their chances at freedom as runaways would be slim if not impossible, so William devised a plan that could provide them with some security. Ellen’s fare-skin tone gave her the appearance of a white American, but William went beyond Ellen passing for a white woman and thought for her to pass a slave owner. William would serve as Ellen’s slave. Ellen was apprehensive at first, but McMillan added that she would rather attempt freedom than remain as a slave and consented to the plan. William purchases various articles of clothing and Ellen made her own trousers. They stored these items in Ellen’s person room, which Ellen’s owner granted to her. McMillian found that Ellen was her master’s favored slave affording her privileges, such as a right to privacy, that other slaves did not have access to. 

One challenge that the Crafts faced was their inability to read and write. Performing as a white male meant not only adorning the appearance of a white male, but his ability to prove his intelligence and status through writing. In certain cities, owners need to sign a document proving their ownership of their traveling slave. Ellen, realizing this problem, hoisted her arm in a sling preventing her character from signing where necessary. Another challenge that the Crafts tackled was Ellen’s feminine voice. While traveling on trains, Ellen faked deaf to avoid a conversation with other male passengers. McMillan argued that these performances in majority upper-class white male spaces were extremely dangerous for Ellen and William. If caught, they may have been subjected to violence and even death by white males and they would have been returned to Georgia for an uncertain fate. 

McMillan considers the intersection of performance and freedom. White male privilege afforded Ellen, passing as William Johnson, with security and lacked surveillance. White males did not pose a significant threat to another white male. Thus, Mr. Johnson could pass through several Southern cities unnoticed with William as his slave, blending with existing presenting of antebellum society. McMillan recounted an incident at a Baltimore train station where a ticket inspector challenged Mr. Johnson and almost ruined the Craft’s escape. The event was the only significant threat that that McMillan mentions.

Once in Boston, the Crafts flee to England where they embark on an anti-slavery/abolitionist tour with anti-slavery advocates. McMillan examines Ellen’s action of curtseying to English, Scottish and Irish audiences. He argues that Ellen upheld Victorian standards of domesticity and womanhood, which conflict with her prior performances and actions of resistance in the United States. McMillan writes that the curtsy displayed Ellen’s “fluency” in understanding cultural norms and “trans-racial bodily vocabulary.” 

**Derrick Bell Reading**

In this intense science fiction short story, Derrick Bell dramatizes race relations in the United States. The Space Traders occurs at a moment of economic downturn and societal decay that a conservative administration does not have a response for. However, foreign visitors also known as “The Traders” contact the United States with a date for their arrival on Earth. Upon their arrival, the Traders offer a deal to the American’s government representative. They offered gold, chemicals, and nuclear engines and fuels for African-Americans. The immediate action was shock and silence. The Traders would give the Americans until January 17, the observation day of Martin Luther King’s birthday to accept or decline the deal. White Americans reacted positively to the visitors and welcomed their trade deal. Blacks Americans viewed the visitors as hostile and unpleasant, a natural reaction to the news they had received. 

The White House debated the pros and cons of the deal, but never had a robust debate on the consequences of sending Black bodies into something unknown. Usually reserved cabinet members such as the Secretaries of Health and Human Services and Interior displayed their racisms through claims of the benefits to public health spending and a patriotic duty to one’s country. The President includes his token minority, Professor Golightly, a Black conservative economics professor at a prestigious university in his cabinet meeting to support the administration’s acceptance of the deal. Golightly departs from his usual conservative tone and rejects any desire of the White House to accept the deal. He is belittled, which leaves him unsure of his prior commitment to the conservative cause. However, Golightly later supports the bill in a committee session to Congress. 

Over the next few days, the country weighs whether to accept or decline the Trader’s offer. Business leaders voice apprehension because of the possible profit loss, but ultimately support and fund a referendum on the trade deal. Religious leaders are mixed on this issue. Evangelicals use their television power to promote the deal comparing it to a biblical redemption for not only the United States, but African-Americans. Some Jewish Americans reject the deal citing it as America’s version of the final solution. These Jewish anti-Traders were targeted by the Attorney General for their resistance. 

Black Americanns tried to flee, but were barred by the federal government. On referendum day, 70% of voters favored the trade deal, while 30% of voters opposed it. The government approved the deal and Black Americans were taken to beach shores and left the United States for unknown terrain. 

**Crockett Reading**

I’Nasha Crockett argues that antiblackness is the foundation of the contemporary society. She does not believe that antiblackness is a new phenomenon, but is a part of a larger historical trend that victimizes and demonizes the Black body in the Western world. Crockett examines antiblackness through misogynoir, misogyny (hatred of women) directed toward black women where race and gender play a role in bias in social media. 

Social media platforms such as Tumblr, Twitter, chat rooms, and blogs are used by Black women for community building and community organizing. Whiles these spaces allow Black women to engage in conversations of life, they also serve as centers for political and social mobilizing. However, even in these spaces, Black women are often surveilled, harassed and subjected to other forms of violence. For example, Crockett includes a link to an article where a white male author admits to stalking the Twitter profiles of Black women. Joel Johnson, the author of the piece, recounts his stalking of Anil Dash and his advocacy for an increase in stalking “sexy”, “charming” and “attractive” black women. Johnson received some praise from commenters, but one commenter summed up his article perfectly. 

Responding to Johnson, shiveringjenny write, “This (backlash) is not about you being a Klansman-this is about you being an inconsiderate jackass.” Johnson’s response is one that tries to defuse the situation with humor: “Watching people ‘like they are fascinating exhibits at a zoo’ is pretty much the definition of following someone on Twitter.” In another act of surveillance of Black women, white male 4chan users spent a year tracking social media sites frequented by Black women to then create fake social media profiles condemning white feminism. There was no purpose for this action other than to cause discontent between white and Black feminists. 

**Reflection**

The Space Traders was a phenomenal read. I enjoyed the setup of the ultimatum between taking resources that could result in the US’ renewed prosperity or respecting Black citizenship. What I enjoyed about the ultimatum was how easily government officials and public opinion supported sending Black Americans onto these space ships without a care for their wellbeing or even where Black Americans would go.

I could not empathize with Professor Golightly who I would have called an Uncle Tom. I thought his character captures all the characteristics of Black conservatives that I loathe. He prides himself on being a man of intelligence, someone who is for personal responsibility and a subscriber to the “pull yourself by your boot straps” mentality. Yet, Golightly is as much a product of the system that he demonizes as any proponent of civil rights legislation and affirmative action. The only reasons that he’s connected to the Republican administration is because the President needs a token to disseminate his agenda to communities that he does not care to reach out to. I am sure that the prestigious university that Golightly professes at needed a hint of color in its economics department. I am not suggesting that he is not qualified, but let us not pretend that universities open their arms to Black faculty members willingly. Look at Hopkins… 

My looming question is what the hell happens to the Black Americans once they board the ship. Bell’s imagery of the African slaves departing the shores of West and Central African for the New World and their descendants leaving the New World for a “Newer World” is striking. From the stoic silence of the inductees to their force stripping of clothing to one items is telling of what may come. I will infer that these visitors watched or at least were knowledgeable of American history. Perhaps the visitors are taking African Americans to a distant world to model their original purpose in the colonial world. I hope that these folks were taken to a paradise, but realistically, I am sure this relocation process will be far worse than the first time. 

**Comment**

To answer Zoya’s second question from Lab Log 9, I want to first agree with your point that this piece is amazing. I do not read fiction often, but I love when it intersects with race politics. Plus, how cool is it that Derrick Bell isn’t even noted for his sci fi writing, but still created this wonderful work. I was curious to see how this piece was received and found a section on the story’s Wikipedia page that may answer your question. I think conservatives, particularly white and Black conservatives, who fail to wrap their heads around racism as a contemporary concept will hate the piece. A Breitbart editor argued the piece was a product of race-hustling that Obama promoted. Fun fact: Bell was Obama’s mentor at Harvard Law. Also, the world must be ending because I cited Breitbart in an academic post. The orange fool has gotten to me . Left leaning readers will probably love the piece as it engages in historical realities of race and racial privilege. These types of discussion are becoming more prominent. 

But to really answer your question, I see no problem why this story cannot be included in Intro to African-American fiction courses or Intro to Fiction courses. I think it is a more realistic piece of sci fi then let’s say, HG Wells War of the Worlds. Don’t get me wrong, it is a great book and I love the 2005 film adaptation, but Martians are not going to invade Earth anytime soon. Conversely, I’ll argue that Tramp’s Muslim ban for “safety” or his scapegoating of Latinx immigrants to stroke the irrationalities of racist populists, are equivalent to the arguments offered by pro-Trade Americans. 

Through our class Tumblr blogs and Twitter we can circulate the piece easily too. We can select quotes from the story that would intrigue our followers and then provide a link to the piece. Also, I would be down to re-adapt the film if anyone has film skills and a million-dollar budget for the visual effects. Bell conjures up great imagery that the 90s adaptation captures, but with limited technological tools. I imagined myself as a fly on the wall in the cabinet meeting and Congressional hearing. I saw myself as one of the inductees leaving the United States for uncertainty. I wanted to harm the Secretary of the Interior. If done properly, I am all for folks being introduced to literature or history through media before engaging with academic texts.  

I am not sure what the rest of the book consist of. If Hopkins student had time, I’d suggest start a reading group, but we do not have time for fun here. 

**Expand**

[Article on Tyler Perry and Lee Daniels from *The Root* ](http://www.theroot.com/tyler-perry-lee-daniels-built-careers-on-black-women-s-1791134272)

As a fleeting fan of Tyler Perry, I found this article fascinating. Also, as someone who believes Lee Daniels is a shady and wrong for how he treated Monique (Look up The Parker’s during spring break; phenomenal show), I am glad someone address their male privilege. 


Questions

1.  Is there an example of the Space Traders trade from any point in history? While reading the story, I thought of Dr. Woods piece on Blackness and Hurricane Katrina. In New Orleans, local, state, and federal government actors, religious and business leaders used the storm to displace Black residents to restore New Orleans’ tourism culture and industry. Katrina was not the catalyst for such action, but the climax. Black New Orleanais faced generations of disenfranchisement and neglect. Their literal erasure from multiple wards of the city spurned development projects that permanently removed their presence. 

2. Ellen’s adherence to Victorian customs, specifically the curtsying was a point of contention for McMillan. She feels comfortable and free enough to engage in a tradition reserved for women of the aristocracy. Ellen passes working class and middle class respectability and appropriates upper class social norms. Could Ellen’s action be an action of her realizing her own humanity? 

3. Are there any examples of misogynoir that you notice in pop culture or that you have consciously or unconsciously committed?  I watch Love & Hip Hop. I think that phrase alone speaks for itself . Here is a link to some examples and a definition for misogynoir: 
https://fightingmisogynoir.wordpress.com/what-is-misogynoir/ 
