## Overview
### Space Traders
  Space Traders is a fictional movie that explores what the United States would do if aliens were to offer peace and prosperity to the country in exchange for all of its Black individuals. The short film begins with a crowd gathered in anticipation for the aliens arrival and when they arive, the Vice President hears their terms of negociation. The aliens state that they will get rid of all the American debt, restore health to all Americans, and bring peace to the country in exchange for every person with at least 2500 mg of melanin in their skin per square centimeter. At first, government officials find the offer preposterous, but then start to consider the "benefits" of making the deal. They point out things such as welfare, food stamps, and poverty as leading reasons to get rid of African Americans. There are also TV advertisements that argue against making the deal because of contributions that Black Americans have made to society such as jazz, the blues, and rock & roll. There is a panel of individuals who point out many products that Black Americans buy most of such as cognac, Newport cigarettes, athletic shoes, and other items. This film shows the way that Black Americans are viewed in society and while fictional, exposes the way that many government officials and regular citizens view African Americans as a burden. Not to mention that they say that maybe the aliens will treat them well --- sounds like people saying slavers may have treated their slaves well. 
### Ellen Craft’s Radical Techniques of Subversion
  This reading describes how Ellen Craft and her husband escaped slavery by impersonating a white slave owner, William Johnson. Ellen Craft's performance as a person completely opposite from who she is - a free, white man - broke the norms of how Black women were supposed to and expected to act. She escaped by using her Blackness as a tool for how to challenge the idea of Whiteness and how each race and gender was supposed to act. After her escape in America, she moved to England as an abolitionist lecturer. Ellen Craft's husband was disguised as "his" slave and while the ploy was dangerous, they made sure to take into account all of the factors that play into executing believeable "Whiteness".  
## Reflection
  Professor Golightly reminded me of Ben Carson in that he was a Black man who failed to stand up for the Black community and insulted them on a public stage. Ben Carson referred to slaves as immigrants who arrived in America searching for opportunity like all others who came to the new land. This description is wholey inaccurate, as was the Professor's remark that Black individuals do not work hard enough and should be expected to be doing better than they are. These two ideas tie together because it is all too often that Black individuals in positions of power are manipulated into an "us" vs "them" mentality as if African Americans are separated into the good ones and the bad ones. This ties into Black code studies because of the mentality of what Blackness means through the lens of certain people. Blackness means something different to people like the Professor and Ben Carson than to Black activists and allies.
## Expand
  @realDonaldTrump: Can you imagine what the outcry would be if @SnoopDogg, failing career and all, had aimed and fired the gun at President Obama? Jail time!
  Snoop Dogg aimed and fired a gun at a person dressed as Donald Trump in his music video and of course, Donald Trump tweeted about it and his lawyer demanded an apology from Snoop.
## Comment
  In response to Turquoise, many people think that Jennifer Lopez revolutionized the "big booty" trend and shamed Black women for having big butts. It is similar to other "trends" such as big lips, braids, and dance crazes. Black ideas, fashion, and bodies are often stolen and bastardized which tricks people into thinking that White people came up with these things on their own.
## Question
  * If you were in Professor Golightly's shoes, would you have saved your family in exchange for supporting the trade deal if you knew that it was going to pass through anyway?
  * How do you think Ellen Craft and her husband afforded to travel, eat, and have the proper clothing? 
  * Do you think that Professor Golightly's family actually made it to safety?
