# OVERVIEW:
Space Traders the movie was a very close reenactment of the book we read earlier this week. The movie, however, had much more humor and double-sided jokes that can only be portrayed through on-screen performances. For example, in the initial discussion about the trade between government officials, one person said "Do you really think the aliens will treat them any better than we have?" It was a statement that was laced with truth and caused a ~gasp~ type reaction. Sort of like a “did he really just say that?” In addition, you could see how the discussion around the room represented society’s continued exploitation of black bodies for political gains and gains for white people. The story is metaphorical in two ways. One, it represents the mass kidnapping and transplantation of Black people during slavery into the unknown. Second, it represents the societal issues that have developed, such as income inequality and racial injustice, because of America’s history with slavery. The Brother From Another Planet movie was very interesting. It, too, was a sci-fi movie that represented slavery. The Brother, was escaping his planet from his White masters and as a result discovered the issues in the lives of Black people in Harlem. He worked by fixing arcade games and washing car windshields (something that is very prevalent in Baltimore). He experienced being mugged/jumped. He felt the sadness of drug overdoses in youth. He innately feared police. Though he never says a word in the movie, you can grasp how his interactions with the people of New York were perpetual occurrences of their lives and of American social norms. 
# REFLECTION:
These movies are incredibly enlightening for me in understanding what Black Codes actually means. Although today we incorporate a lot of thought into how technology is infused in modern Black Codes, these movies elaborate on what Black Codes meant in the analog period – before social media, before smart phones, and before computers. For the Brother, he was an alien who did not understand how humans worked. In particular, the way that the humans of Americans in a major metropolitan city filled with a diverse population with differing economic and social status. He had to decode the way that not only humans interacted and behaved, but how he was supposed to interact as a BLACK man. 
# EXPAND:
http://www.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=940DEEDA143AF937A2575AC0A962948260
I shared a movie review of Brother From Another Planet from 1984. It’s interesting how the critic doesn’t mention things about Sayles trying to portray societal issues towards Black people – rather he brushed it off as a comedy. 
# COMMENT:
Zoya’s expand: That picture of Trayvon Martin’s shirt as a bull’s eye vs a Captain America logo was truly sad. It speaks to how different something or someone can be portrayed. I think the shirt exactly represents what the activists of Black Lives Matter are trying to fight for – justice for the systemic injustice that they have suffered as a result of underlying racism in our political and societal system. 
# QUESTION:
1.	Why did the preachers at the church decide not to side with Golightly? Did they not trust him because of his past or because they did not think scheming to trick White people was possible?
2.	Black people in Space Traders were allowed one carry-on, during the American slave trade, were any of the slaves allowed to bring any belongings with them?
3.	The Brother could not speak, and the other escaped slaves could not speak either. Does this symbolize how Blacks were silenced during slavery? Scared into being subordinate and obedient machines?

