# OVERVIEW:
Faces at the Bottom of the Well:
	This reading was a fictional tale about “Space Traders” – intergalactic people – who came to Earth to take all of the United States’ Black people in exchange for enough gold and natural resources to ease the country’s growing debt. It told the story of how the US government officials contemplated and discussed the stipulations of the trade which uncovered the racial issues wrought in America. Reasons such as decreasing racial violence, welfare and social services, and poverty were tied to the existence of Black people. In a way, the story revealed the issues that Black people have to constantly deal with in society and the institutional processes that seem to systematically work against them. 

Ellen Craft’s Radical Techniques of Subversion:
	This reading was about how Ellen Craft, a slave, escaped slavery with her husband by impersonating a White master. The method in which she did so defied the normal portrayal of the “typical” Black female fugitive slave. Through her “performance” as a White slave owner, she challenged gender and racial norms of what Black women are supposed to act and appear. Black female bodies were “subjected to extensive scientific examination and placed on public display in fairs and examination as curios and freaks,” yet Ellen was described as “intelligent, graceful, and feminine.” She pushed the boundary between black and white femininity. 
# REFLECTION:
Professor Golightly’s character made me think of some of the political leaders we have today. For example, his views seemed to work against what Black people need or want, and it reminds me of the public’s reaction to Ben Carson. Although he is a Black man in a position of power in the executive branch, people don’t agree with his views about how to improve the lives of the oppressed. But perhaps he’s similar to Professor Golightly, in that he still supports Blacks, but in a different way? Perhaps when there is an extreme circumstance in which he must dissent, then he will? Golightly believed that he made more of an impact for Blacks than most activists from his influence inside the political system. Yet, I’m not too sure if that is true. One quote that I thought was particularly impactful was when Professor Golightly says that the Golden Age will be more like a century of shame. This is what drew the line for him. In addition, Golightly reflected saying “he tried to do what political activists try to do and make whites realize to treat blacks right because it was right they do so. Crazy!” (171). This is when he realized that his efforts to advance the status of Blacks could not even help him sway the cabinet. He was a puppet in their political plan, and he didn’t even know it. This story reminds of many stories we reviewed in class in how Black people or figures are taken advantage of in order to move forward someone else’s agenda. For example, Professor Simpson had said in one of our discussions that sometimes she is asked to be in a picture at an event for Hopkins so that they can prove they have a diverse faculty. 
# EXPAND:
http://hub.jhu.edu/2017/03/08/race-forums-intersectionality-identity/
I worked with Mo Speller last year to organize a graduate student conference and was very excited to see his influence on campus from this panel discussion. There are many times that I feel as though Hopkins does not embrace the diverse campus that we have (in terms of race, gender, and religion), but reading articles like these gives me hope that minority groups at Hopkins can still have their voices heard and can be respected for what who they are and what they believe in. 
# COMMENT:
•	Turquoise: There has been a trend of “big booty” fashion in the past few years (Nicki Minaj, Kim Kardashian, Beyoncé, Jennifer Lopez etc.). Why does a Black woman with larger assets have to be famous or explicitly fetishized in order for her to receive praise rather than ridicule?
o	I think in America, we’ve gotten used to the “bigger the better” mentality. That is not only in the instance of fetishizing women but even in our perception of food. When we walk into a restaurant, we expect that the servings are massive in order to get our monies worth, not necessarily to give us a healthy portion of what we should intake. When we watch performances by music artists, the more lights, fireworks, sound, and craziness there is – the more exciting it is. Celebrities are the main avenue in which these fashion trends can then be popularized. 

# QUESTION:
1.	Do you think Professor Golightly was heroic or a sell-out? Do you think that supporting conservative policies like getting rid of Affirmative Action and other social welfare programs was justified?
2.	Did Ellen Craft realize the impact of her escape to slavery story would have on gender and racial norms?
3.	How did the couple have enough money to pay for trains, clothes, food, etc. if the plan was conceived in eight days? Did they save the pennies that their masters would occasionally hand out?
4.	How did Ellen Craft and her husband meet if they were from two different plantations? Do you think it was difficult for them to coordinate this plan because of this distance?


