# Lab Log 2: On *Underground* and Slavery Tourism & Art 
#### Ellie Strauss


## **Overview**
This set of readings focuses on how the slave narrative and African-American history to this day have been depicted in history books, movies, TV shows, museums, and art. Salamishah Tillet’s article “In the Shadow of the Castle: (Trans)Nationalism, African American Tourism, and Gorée Island” focuses on Gorée Island in Senegal and its principal role as a touristic pilgrimage site for those interested in remembering slavery, and how Carrie Mae Weems and Chester Higgins depict and analyze the significance of this Senegalese site. For them, the art recognizes the House of Slaves as “the ultimate symbol of the slave trade” and reminds viewers of just how terrible the conditions slaves faced. Proponents of the House of Slaves as a popular touristic site similarly view this monument as a physical embodiment and monument of the history of slavery, deeming it important to visit the heritage site as a nod towards the existence of slavery. However, this site remembers only one experience of slaves: a group of Senegalese who endured these terrible conditions, and many other sites around the world hold historical significance for African Americans which are remembered by other tourists and artists who share their findings with a large audience. 
Tillet and other of this week’s authors provide controversial arguments noting that although the Gorée Island exists as a very important monument remembering slavery, it is not an all-encompassing site that explains slavery, because slaves and African Americans have historically and contemporarily endured different experiences and discrimination, and not every African American has ties to Gorée Island. Additionally, this monument does not cover each important step of the history such as the Civil Rights movement and modern-day racial issues. Tillet highlights how it is important to appreciate African American history and stories from different perspectives and regions instead of emphasizing one site of slavery that unfairly assumes the unity of African Americans and the commonality of their experiences. The other articles discussing the newly opened National Museum of African American History and Culture and the effect of Underground similarly appreciate the efforts made by museum director Lonnie Bunch and Underground co-creators Misha Green and Joe Pokaski to educate individuals on African American history and present, and make them aware of all Black stories, the well and the less-well known ones. 

## **Reflection**
It is fascinating to read these various articles and compare ideas offered on how to understand and appreciate African American history through conventional and new perspectives. Separate from the crusade made by tourists to Senegal, Carrie Mae Weems and Chester Higgins manage to make viewers aware of the story behind the site who otherwise would not be aware, and to make them ponder and discuss slavery, race, and the historical trajectory as a whole from a modern perspective. Their works exist as a form of propaganda in a non-forceful way. The National Museum of African American History and Culture and the series Underground too make people aware of many details behind the slave narrative, and encourage them to discuss and understand it in a variety of new platforms, whether it be streaming the latest episode of Underground on one's computer, or appreciating Juan Garcia's experience as an African American living in Ecuador at the National Museum of African American History and Culture. 
Even today as we have increased access to information concerning the history of slavery and successive African American experiences in a plethora of media, visual, audio, and textual platforms, we remain somewhat uncomfortable with the topic of race. As we have discussed in class, it is important to be aware of these issues and discuss these topics with ease. Artists, creators, and directors such as those discussed above inspire people to be more comfortable with these topics today, but there is room for improvement. It is fascinating to see a show such as Underground have a similar style to shows such as Prison Break and other action/drama series, but discuss a much deeper, historically-rooted topic. It is a monumental step that the National Museum of African American History and Culture finally opened after over a decade of planning and curatorial decision-making, and the fact that it sits in such a public place as the National Mall, "America's Front Yard" is a colossal step in our country's history. 

## **Expand**
http://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/ai-weiwei-problem-political-art-china 

## **Questions** 
* Do modern approaches to understanding and gathering information on historic events such as slavery through Meems and Higgins' art and our founding fathers explained through showtunes in Hamilton make millennials more or less likely to study history in a conventional way i.e. through research papers and tests? Is this a step in a good or bad direction 
* Noelle Trent celebrates Underground in her article by writing that it "successfully portrays slaves in a sophisticated manner." (http://www.aaihs.org/thoughts-on-underground/) What is the meaning perceived behind this? Are previous accounts of slaves portray them in unsophisticated manners?
* Are flocks of tourists visiting Senegal to see Gorée Island and taking pictures documenting their visit have positive or negative impacts on our appreciation of these monumental sites, even if these large numbers of tourists stimulate the Senegalese economy? 
