


**Lab Log 15 | JB**

**Overview**

*Mitchell Reading*

Michele Mitchell critiques historians of the Afro-American history for their failure to address issues of gender and sexuality in works on the African-American experience. Women’s history, she explains fails to address race issues. Scholars and observers notice this phenomenon in the overwhelming white women theorists discussed, taught, and deified in feminist discourse. Likewise, Black history fails to address issue of gender and sexuality. Mitchell believes that issues of race and gender cannot be separated in historical analysis of the Black experience, a point she gathered through a reading of works by Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham. If gender and sexuality has been excluded from narratives of the Black experience, then where is the Black woman’s or Black queer’s place in their own history? This question and the lack of an answer to it “vexed”, Higginbotham, Mitchell contends. Higginbotham found that these silences of gender and sexuality produced generations of scholarship that ignored the life of the Afro-American woman. Although Higginbotham called for conversation on race and gender, Mitchell informs readers the that call went unheard. In 1999, when Mitchell wrote this essay, she lamented over the lack of critical works on gender and sexuality in the Black community. However, Mitchell does offer a summary of certain works that began to address this intellectual void. 

Mitchell’s inclusion of James Horton’s “Freedom’s Yoke is one of the more interesting references in the article. Horton examined gender convention among free blacks in the antebellum period. He found an unsurprising contradiction in how free blacks practiced their politics. While free Blacks preached emancipation and racial justice, they remained steadfast followers of oppressive gender norms that resembled white society. Similarly, Jim Cullen’s essay “I’s a Man Now” traced the emergence of gender convention among Black males practicing at the dawn of freedom eerily resembling white male conventions. These examples re used to highlight Mitchell’s claim that the link between race and gender is unquestionable. 

Mitchell returns to her allusion of Higginbotham, referencing her work Righteous Discontent. This text shifted scholarship on black history that previously excluded gender and sexuality. It traces Black women Baptists who made the Baptists church a social justice organization in the late nineteenth century. Higginbotham interprets the actions of Black women Baptists as an example of respectability politics that emerges in the post-slavery generation. They sought to uplift the race through Christian morality that confirmed to white societal standards and norms. Also, Higginbotham uses this interpret to examine how these women practices their politics, particularly when it involved non-middle class actors. Mitchell references these works and others to indicate that while literature on Black gender and sexuality exist, there needs to be more work done. 

*Smith Reading*

Barbara Smith retells her founding of Kitchen Table Press, the first all women of color press. Kitchen Table developed out of a necessity for scholarship by women of color, feminists and lesbians of color who mainstream publishers ignored. The kitchen table has a dual meaning, one rooted in familial notions and another in activism. The kitchen table is the center of the home where women often work and communicate. It is a comforting place where women engaged in discourse on topics that they may not have otherwise discussed. The kitchen table is also a symbol for budding radicals to gather ideas and produces social change. 

Kitchen Table Press allowed marginalized writers autonomy, selection of content and conditions of works, and controlling their own images. The press served as an outlet for writers who were shunned by white feminists who critiqued women and lesbians of color for their critique of the white feminism’s racist, discriminatory, and exclusionary practices. Thus, Kitchen Table Press had the dual role of both a publishing house and an activist organization. It became a communication network for radical politics for women of color in the US and abroad. Its goal was to education people of color on issues that were traditionally ignored in mainstream Afro-American discourse, specifically sexuality and gender identity. 

Smith wrote that white women accused Kitchen Table Press of discriminatory practices because of their exclusion from the press. In the minds of these white scholars, if their research considered women of the “Third World” or dealt with sexuality, they should be candidates for the press. What these women failed to understand, in Smith’s understanding, is the importance of having a space controlled and only for groups excluded from mainstream publishing. She summarized the experience with a poignant line “racism and traditional power dynamics die hard” (Smith 13). That sentiment is still felt today. Finally, Smith questioned if Kitchen Table was an act of radical politics or political change. She concluded that Kitchen Table’s existence is an example of how radical politics can become change making. If the press did not exist, scholarship produced by women of color, feminists of color, and lesbians of color would not exist or exist infrequently.  

*Gumbs Reading*

Alexis Pauline Gumbs traces the foundations of archiving Black feminist literature ecology as her framework. Gumbs uses various blog and digital humanities websites as the roots for a larger network of feminist scholarship. Audre Lorde is a looming figure in this article. Lorde’s work is founded in an archive at Spelman College, surprising considering HBCU’s conservative politics reject Lorde’s writings on the Black lesbian experience. Such a finding is “queer” or unlikely in Gumbs’ view. 

These networks of Black women and lesbian’s scholarship is a product of self-sufficiency and exclusion. It is the response to the Smith Sisters’ claim that Black lesbians and feminists should not depend on conventional publishing and intellectual methods to tell their stories. Rather, they must recognize the necessity of their stories and work to display these stories for self-preservation. Thus, the ecological aspects of Gumbs’ argument is unearthing, digging and growing roots scholarship “grounded in unmarked graves, circumscribed by death…” or silenced (17). 

Gumbs expressed the importance of academic archives of works published by Black women made available by universities such as Emory, Spelman, Harvard and education institution such as the Schomburg Center of the New York Public Library. These institutions were instrumental to Gumbs initial research, much to her surprise it seems. However, she does list a few websites produced by women of color that are a part of a larger network of writing by women of color and lesbians of color. mississippiappendectomy.wordpress.com chronicles information on the force sterilization of women of color in the United States, particularly in the South. ellebd.blogspot.com offers insight on the lives and resistance of working class black women in the US adding to narratives on labor, maternity, resistance, and justice. Finally, superhussy.com intervenes in conversations about Black women, sexuality and self-esteem. 

*Bailey Reading*

Moya Bailey discussed her process for writing an autothenography, a form of qualitative research in which an author uses self-reflection and writing to explore their personal experience and connect their experience to wider cultural, political and social understanding. Bailey “highlights the networks contemporary Black trans women create through the production of digital media” (1). Black trans women reclaimed a forum that is often damaging to their existence. Mainstream culture and media often depicts black trans women in stereotypical form. However, Black trans women use media to challenge descriptions of their existence. Bailey used Twitter as an example. 

Twitter is the new kitchen table for Black trans women. Bailey coined the term “digital alchemy” as the variety of ways women of color transform digital media into social justice forums to recode descriptions of their existence. Bailey observed #girlslikeus, a social media movement in support of Black trans women. The # critiqued the depiction of Black trans women as tricksters and deceivers who deserved their mistreatment at the hand of hyper masculine men.  The movement was started by Janet Mock as a movement to bring awareness to the murders of Black trans women. It highlighted the harassment, abuse, and harm that trans women of color face and survive in an age of increasing visibility. 

Bailey explained that her inclusion of the # warranted asking for permission by the #’s creator Janet Mock. She argued that provided attribution via citations is not enough. Specifically, when attribution involves citing marginalized and targeted groups, safety is a large concern when publicly naming individuals. While trans women of color are a marginalized community, the IRB does not consider trans women of color a vulnerable community. Bailey improvised and crated her own review board that included trans women of color. This act connect her research to many if its subject, an act of collaboration that Bailey wants to occur more often in academia. Bailey wants to create a book that is useful to the community is references and acts as a resource for their safety and development. 

*Ramanathan Reading*

Lavanya Ramanathan interviews the founders of the digital magazine Very Smart Brothas for The Washington Post. Damon Young and D. Marcellus Wright, pen name Panama Jackson are the editors in chief of Very Smart Brothas. The magazine began in 2008, but found prominence in the wake of the 2016 presidential election. Young penned an article rejected white political pundits claim that Clinton loss because people of color did not vote. Prior to the election, VSB was out of the mainstream of information, only averaging 2 million visitors of month, Ramanathan writes. However, she also mentions that VSB received recognition from hip hop artist Questlove, journalist Shaun King, and television critic Emily Nussbaum.

Young says that VSB offers readrs discussions that are not mainstream. They have been the subject of controversy, such as when Young wrote an article urging women to use common sense to avoid rape. He faced backlash from women, but Young reasoned that he needed this experience and called it a valuable lesson. Young is the public face of VSB or rather he has adapted well to his fame. Wright is the opposite, but appears to soften up to fame. Both anguished over struggling to manage a website and writing articles. 

**Reflection**

This week’s scholars on gender and sexuality asked important questions related to silences in Afro-American history. I think the exclusion of lesbian women of color and Black feminist literature is a problem that we face today. For example, literature by queer women of color is not often featured in the canon of Afro-American literature, except for The Color Purple. However, upon its initial release, The Color Purple was not well-received by the Afro-American community. Some critics claimed that Alice Walker falsely depicted hyper-masculinity in the Black community. Other rejected Walker’s raw depiction of the lesbian relationship between Celie and Shug Avery. The community’s rejection of works such as Walker’s novel add to the evidence that these silences of Black queer experiences were real. 

**Comment**

In response to Zoya’s second question, when I searched for “The Tempest” on Google, the first four or five results referenced a Shakespeare play. Then, I found a blog site featuring the works of millennial women. The Tempest seems a great resource to connect women to a wider network of writers, journalists, policymakers, comedians and more to share and tell their own stories. I think the only comparison to Kitchen Table Press that can be made is that both are spaced started and controlled by women. Through a quick glance of the website, The Tempest is not a political press, whereas Kitchen Table Press’ origin lie in radical politics. The Tempest reads as a less bourgeois and more inclusive version of Vogue. That is not a problem and I think it works to The Tempest’s advantage for a wider audience. However, Kitchen Table Press was a producer of political work.   I think this point is one that prevents me from making the comparison between the two organizations. 

**Expand**

[Elaine Riddick Jessie video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MebGHUjs1IE)

When I first heard the term “Mississippi Appendictomy” it was written in a book on the Civil Rights Movement by historian Danielle McGuire in At the Dark End of the Street. McGuire attributes that term to civil rights and voting rights activist Fannie Lou Hammer, who described the force sterilization she underwent as a result of a physician’s deception. In Baltimore, this story is immortalized in the book on Henrietta Lack’s life (a film debuts sometime this week). Force sterilization was so widespread that the US Senate voted to provide financial compensation to victims of forced sterilizations. Notice that forced sterilization is targeted at the working poor. Elaine Riddick Jessie explains her experience as a victim of forced sterilization around 1968 (See video above). 

**Questions**

1. After reading Mitchell’s article, do you believe that African-American studies scholars and feminists scholars have addressed her criticism of silences in race and women’s histories? Where do you think there has been improvement? What work still needs to be completed? 

2. Smith mentioned that Kitchen Table Press developed out of exclusionary practices by publishing houses who did not take the scholarship of women of color and lesbians of color seriously. This point makes me wonder how Alice Walker received the support of a larger publishing house to produce The Color Purple. How did Walker publish her novel despite its vivid description of life that publishers often ignored? 

3. One of the websites that Gumbs profiled is title “superhussy.com”. In the Black community, the word “hussy” is used in a demeaning manner by more conservative elders to describe some young women who may have promiscuous behaviors and pleasures. Yet, Aeisha Turman reclaimed the word hussy and started a blog that touches on themes of self-esteem, love, and acceptance for Black women. What is the value of reclaiming words that were used to stereotype and demonize marginalized groups? Is it appropriate? How does reclaiming these words give them new meaning? 
