# Overview
#### Alexander G. Wheliye. “Engendering Phonographies: Sonic Technologies of Blackness”

Alexander Wheliye compares his works Habeas Viscus and Phonographies, two works that demonstrate different periods of his thoughts on black studies, black feminist theory, political violence, and alternate concepts of humanity. As a first-generation African and black European in the US, he analyses the ideas of blackness and how they relates to Western modernity and decolonial critiques and concepts behind black feminist approaches. He highlights the centrality of blackness and black cultures in modern Western thought and life, pointing to how central blackness, black people, and black cultures are in forming the concept of the West, and how blackness is not just a racial concept, but also addresses the spectrum of power between racial groups. He manages through Phonographies to evoke these concepts through ruptures of technology and sound, and makes sure to emphasize that his work is not in fact a book about music, but is instead a combination of black culture, sound, and technology. He highlights how this work doesn’t include any texts by black female, queer, or non-gender confirming writers in order to closely focus on race consciousness. 

#### Kim Gallon. “Making a Case for the Black Digital Humanities.” 

In this article, Kim Gallon tries to articulate the relationship between the digital humanities and Africana/African American/Black studies to show how technology can highlight humanity’s racially focused social constructions, and provide a forum to think contemplate the ways that black humanity thrives in media and literature. She concentrates on black digital humanities by focusing on the “technology of recovery,” which restores black people’s humanity, and the constant racialized systems of power at work in how we understand digital humanities and utilize its techniques. She defines black digital humanities as a constructed space through which to consider the links between digital and blackness, highlighting any connection between humanity and the digital as an aspect that could reinforce how humans have evolved from racializing systems. Recent social media movements such as #SayHerName, #BlackLivesMatter, and #ICantBreathe make Blacks’ humanity apparent to the world, and make their lives relevant to white lives, as well as efforts by scholars and institutions that have literary and historical projects to represent people often neglected in common media coverage. 

#### Tonya Haynes. “Mapping Caribbean Cyberfeminisms.” 

This essay highlights the motivations behind Caribbean cyberfeminisms that manage to be at once regional, national, global, transnational, and diasporic. Using blogs, tweets, exhibits, and social media, Caribbean feminists use the Internet to organize around the world that had previously required in-person organizations. Mapping Caribbean Cyberfeminisms offers the opportunity to document women’s and feminist movements that have previously failed to be documented. Looking at Caribbean feminist blogs and new technological activism. 

#### Wangechi Mutu 
This site is the artist Wangechi Mutu’s website who, born in Kenya, is now considered one of the most important contemporary African artists in recent years. Her website compiles her current and past exhibitions across the world, books that she has written and is mentioned or featured in, articles she is mentioned in, and her background. The hand instead of a mouse makes visitors to her website feel more actively involved in her work and artistic process. 

# Reflection 

This group of readings brings to mind the role that technology has in giving Blacks a medium through which to articulate their thoughts and express themselves. It echos past readings on Black twitter, especially Kim Gallon’s article that appreciates popular hashtags as a way to make Black lives concerns available to Whites. Each of these articles highlight artists and activists that have used writing and modern technologies in art as media to share their ideas on Black studies, life, and racial relations. They have all attempted to bring the importance of black history in white society and modernity to mind in their respective works. It is fascinating to track the overlapping ideas highlighted by these individuals across different platforms, and the effects that this multi-media use has on sharing their thoughts with people who should learn and appreciate the prominence of Blacks today, even though they face historical and modern discrimination and pushback. It also made me think of the inclusion of Queer art at the 2018 Whitney Biennial going on now in New York, and what this kind of showcase demonstrates about art as a creative medium for misunderstood and misrepresented groups. 
https://www.instagram.com/p/BS1m2U_hzHv/?taken-by=creativetimenyc 

# Expand 

These articles made me think of how Kara Walker’s “A Subtlety” was named 1 of 10 contemporary works that tell the story of contemporary art. It also made me think of what our team is currently working through and focusing on for our final project in tracking the presence of black art and black artists in museums’ collection throughout the US. Having just read several articles on how museums in recent years have scrambled to purchase works by Black artists to show their support for minority artists. These acquisitions and honor of Kara Walker’s work as one of 10 most influential contemporary works serve as steps in the right direction, and serve as examples of artists who use various art forms to share their ideas on Blackness and race with audiences. 
 
# Questions 
1.	Are their other groups similar to Caribbean Cyberfeminists who have used the Internet in such a creative and successful way in recent years to make users increasingly aware of their movements? 
2.	Is Wheliye’s emphasis on not including queer and feminist artists in his research to fully focus on the role of race necessary, especially in a world when female and queer work should be appreciated just as those written by men? 
3.	I am still somewhat unclear about how the Internet highlights how technology highlights racially focused social constructions according to Kim Gallon. Is this linked to Black twitter uses and the increased availability of information and the “technology of recovery” that restores Black people’s digital humanity? 
