## Lab Log #3 | Channing Kimble-Brown

### Overview

**"'I Could Not Stay There': Enslaved Women, Truancy and the Geography of Everyday Forms of Resistance in the Antebellum Plantation South"**

* This paper is written by Stephanie Camp. She discusses black truancy, the practice of escaping from slavory temporarily to take a break from the overworking and captivity. Laws were created by the slave owning elites to control every aspect of slaves' lives and movement. She also talks about slaves having a "rival geography" that was in direct conflict with the orderly deterministic geography that slave owners had. Slaves thought in terms of movement and refuge while slave owners were only concerned with limiting movement, restricting autonomy and increasing productivity. Truancy threatened white slave owner's sense of mastery over black people. This practice was particularly common among women because women were much less likely to run all the way to permenant freedom since they were so strongly tied to black families and communities. Camp says that the ideal of never leaving your children and family became engrained in the community's idea of an ideal woman and so black women were extremely limited in their opportunities for true escape. Men were also extremely important to families but their expectations were different. Women were also restricted by the fact that they rarely had any sort of geographical knowledge beyond the plantation since men were the ones sent out for any kind of work on the roads, in the woods or near waterways, which also made them stand out if caught traveling off the plantation, especially of they had children with them. Truancy seems to have been more common in the deep south, or at least more frequently recorded. Truancy was caused by many of what Camp calls 'push facts' like exhaustion, desporaton, terror or anger. But it as also caused by factors pulling people away, like parents and spouses going to visit loved ones after their families have been sold off and separated. Truancy was often a community effort, each individual motivated by a combination of personal, social and political reasons. This form of resistance paved the way for many more slaves down the line to find freedom.

**"Mathematics Black Life"**
 
* This piece is written by decolial scholar Katherine McKittrick who is concerned about sharing the archival numbers and statistics of anti-black death and violence during slavery and how that just repeats the violation in the present day if there isn't a conscious effort to emphasize the humanity in the black people that are being studied. She says scholars must be wary of becoming desensitized to anti-black violence because that desensitization in and of itself is a violence and disservice to black people. She really likes the idea of taking those dehumanizing numbers and changing the context to instead focus on the "truthful lies" told by the same data. She often goes back to a notable sentence in a ledger of slave data where the slaver wrote "She says she was born free" and McKittrick feels that that small moment of black humanity is managing to break through the brutality and objectification of black bodies. She believes that we have to look beyond and realize that what is not in the numbers is living.

**"Left of Black with Jasmine Nichole Cobb"**

* Cobb is a researcher that is interested in how free black people were represented in the early nineteenth century. She had to look through archives of visual depictions of black people to avoid the racism, caricature and erasure from white sources. She discusses how white people maintain the white gaze and white surveillance through the abolition of slavery and how the black gaze is the biggest way to combat it. Cobb also talks about what free black people chose to paint and draw. They tended not to include their bodies in images and Cobb sees the absence as meaningful since white people are constantly showing their bodies. Cobb also discusses the significance of parlor spaces because these spaces were used for organizing, writing, reading, entertaining. She talks about black freedom as a visual problem because it can inspire other black people and make white people uncomfortable. This visual conflict is still a problem today with Barack Obama's presence in the white house directly clashing with caricatures of free black people in the wall paper. Cobb also feels that black people creating and circulating images is easier in some ways but there is still resistance from institutions, white people thinking they can determine when, where and how black images can be disseminated. She closes off talking about her next project and the connection between freedom and black hair in the 20 and 21st centuries. 

**"Anthony Chase to Jeremiah Hoffman"**

* This letter is written by a Anthony Chase, a slave that was hired out by his owner to a man named Jeremiah Hoffman and escaped to freedom in the time he was supposed to go up to Hoffman's property and return to his original master. He begs forgiveness and says that he plans to pay his mistress back for everything he is worth but he also states that he didn't really have any choice but to free himself when he saw the opportunity, especially after getting married. He seems particularly vindicated by the fact that his master had died and told the executors of his will to free Anthony Chase after he died (which they did not).

**"Runaways, Selections from the WPA Interviews"**

* This piece is a collection of stories told by former slaves of people they knew that escaped and survived on their own until slavery or tried to escape and got punished for it. There were also a few stories that talked about slaves resisting in their own way while staying on the plantations, like feeding slaves being punished when they weren't supposed to. Some of them escaped themselves and took others with them. One of the stories was about a man helping others get free in the underground railroad by staying a slave longer than he had to and helping people over the river. There's also a few people that comment on how black runaways were tricked into joining the war and allude to horrific and often fatal results.

---
### Reflection

The idea of fugitivity linking all of these pieces together is really interesting to me. All of these narratives of truancy, permenant escape, helping others get away kind of connects to the "Mathematics Black Life" piece because telling these tales are kind of analyzed with numbers but the nature of the data maintains the agency and humanity of the people involved. The number of people escaping is not centered on the white people and how many people fell victim to their cruelty. The number of people that escaped for whatever length of time tell us how many people desired freedom, how many people felt that their lives were worth living and improving, how many people andmust have felt like helping people in their community or even strangers escaping from other plantations were worth saving. The "Left of Black" interview kind of contextulized these ideas in the present for me as well. The information recorded and disseminated about black people during slavery was almost entirely determined by white people and for white people, preventing black people really controlling how we are viewed and this has carried on to the present. The context of Barack Obama standing in front of the wallpaper of black caricatures in the White House and how his visual juxtaposition with that wallpaper means something totally different than it ever did for the 43 white presidents that came before him. Black bodies are politicized by just existing and looking simply at the present day representations of black people that are approved by white people isn't nearly as meaningful as looking at the deeper meaning of what isn't explicity shown or acknowledged.

---
### Expand

I saw that Dr. Johnson did an episode of Left of Black [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s2Su6P-loXk) with Dr. Treva Lindsey where they talked about sex and intimacy in the lives of historical black women like Harriety Tubman in response to a video that was created about a sex tape made by Harriet Tubman. I didn't watch the entire interview but they get into sexual violence and sexual agency in the context of black women during slavery. This is definitely not a topic that I come across often and I think it connects very much to the idea of controlling how black people are portrayed. Caricature has made revolutionary black people sort of androgynous and sexless, never supporting the idea that these figures experienced pleasure, pain, love and were fully feeling human beings.

---
### Comment

In Turqoise's third question she asks about modern day black movements and the dissemination of black images being controlled by white people and I think they do. Black people have been extremely engaged online for a long time and black people have been talking about issues that affect our communities and mobilize our people but this information doesn't reach the national media without the white people deeming it appropriate or worth people's time. Just looking at Hollywood as one example, movies and tv shows about black people tend to be seen as being only for black people and people of color in general are rarely cast as protaganists in major motion pictures (though perhaps that is improving somewhat). In many ways movies and tv shows are some of the only exposure to black people that white people have and there really aren't enough of us actively making decisions on how we're portrayed in all media to make sure that black character are shown to be real people with humanity worth respecting.

---
### Question

0. How long did it take for former slaves to feel safe sharing stories of escape like they did in the interviews about runaways? I imagine right after the war black people had to be worried that they'd be enslaved again and would be reluctant to reveal escape tactics just in case. 
0. Is the term 'bondpeople' a common academic term for slaves? I couldn't tell if it was supposed to be humanizing, euphemism o just a more technical term.
0. How did black families broken up by members being sold off find each other again? 
