#Lab Log 3: On Understanding the History of Slavery and Blackness in a New Light 
####Ellie Strauss

##Overview 

This set of readings focuses on understanding the history of slavery and the narratives we have access to in a new way, not merely evaluating blackness as a history of violence and death. Katherine McKittrick in her article “Mathematics Black Life” emphasizes the need to appreciate slave narratives as distinct experiences, not simply as tallies of violently treated African Americans. The importance of these personal accounts is indisputable, but McKittrick argues that Black scholars should take a modern and fresh approach to understanding and appreciating slave narratives. After all, it is important to see the agency and activist sides of these accounts and to appreciate the steps slaves took to free themselves in an effort to better understand Black studies today, and the uniqueness of each slave’s experiences. Stephanie Camp takes a similar stance in her article, discussing the importance of truancy and how much agency this radical act gave to slaves. Especially among female slaves, truancy gave slaves a glimmer of hope and independence from their masters.
Camp highlights the importance of reading these narratives as closely as descriptions of the violent brutality practiced by masters, because these accounts look at slavery through short-term experiences with freedom, instead of experiences as their masters’ property and manual labor. Especially when studying slavery today from a modern standpoint, it is important to appreciate the moments when slaves challenged their masters’ dominance and crossed the borders they were not meant to cross. The collection of slave narratives from the WPA interviews of formerly enslaved African Americans shed more light on the importance of reading individual slave narratives and understanding them separately as part of a larger story, not a common and unanimous one. 

##Reflection 

These readings offer a fresh and much-needed reinvention of how we tend to understand the history of slavery and blackness. As discussed in class on Thursday, it is important to step back and evaluate how we view history, and how many different forms of expression and evidence exist that can provide us with new ways to gain a deeper mastery of history. McKittrick and Camp in particular articulate how it is important to see slave narratives as stand alones, not as reinforcement of the “one common slave experience.” There are several token slave narratives, histories, and photographs we commonly associate with slavery, and there are so many that are neglected by only focusing on these most well known ones. McKittrick’s example of the rear view image of Gordon as the most widely used visual depiction of slave treatment in many reports shows the pattern of making large, brushstroke assumptions of the history of slavery. It is important to view narratives and events as independent steps ultimately leading to abolition to understand the different experiences endured by slaves and African Americans throughout history. They are more than stories of violence and blackness; they can teach us a lot about even our world today. 
Shows like Underground and movies like 12 Years a Slave can teach us to appreciate the history of slavery and blackness in a modern way. Chimamanda echoed these sentiments in her FAS presentation on Wednesday night, emphasizing new ways of understanding the times by identifying the importance of anger as an important emotion to track that enacts and inspires change. She encouraged audience members to use these emotions and do something about them, inspiring everyone to be involved and attempt to make a change in a way they seem fit. Just like the slaves who inscribed their experiences escaping their masters and chains, we too should find new ways to understand our history and the past to better foresee and plan our future. And this does not occur with a few individuals responding to their frustration or anger that represent everyone’s unhappiness and frustration; each person’s agency and opinion is important, and should be appreciated by people now and historians studying this era in the future. 

##Expand 

https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/02/movies/review-i-am-not-your-negro-review-james-baldwin.html?_r=0
I found this review of *I Am Not Your Negro* relevant to this week’s readings, especially the question raised “since when is everything about race?” This movie highlights the modern analysis of race relations, calling into questions almost every pre-conceived norm regarding this concept. It manages to bring up topics that are conventionally uncomfortable to discuss, crossing borders and notions of what is politically correct. This article and movie seemed relevant to me both for this week’s reading and for this course in general. 

##Questions
-	What exactly is McKittrick trying to convey through her title “Mathematics Black Life?” Even after reading the article, I do not fully understand her mathematic, numerical take on the study of slavery and blackness. 
-	Literacy was obviously very important in the sharing of directions to paths to freedom, as well as the documentation of slave narratives. How did slaves included in the WPA interviews of formerly enslaved African Americans likely learn how to read and write so well? After all, there are some grammatical and spelling errors, but the fact that this number of slaves could write is impressive. 
-	How can we reconcile this difference between the black gaze and the white gaze relevant in the 19th century described by Professor Jasmine Nichole Cobb today when trying to effectively understand slavery and the history of blackness? 
