Lab Log #3 - Kwame Alston
=========================
## Summarize ##
**“‘I Could Not Stay There’: Enslaved Women, Truancy and the Geography of Everyday Forms of Resistance in the Antebellum Plantation South.”**

 - This reading focused on the gendered differences of runaway slaves. It explored the different motivations for a female slaves staying on a plantation, the difficulty of land navigation, and the women that ultimately did make their escape.  The piece opens on up with the forms of torture slaves would endure in they attempted to make their way to freedom. The reading changes the way escaped is talked about and not just in the form of going to to north to escape enslavement, but the simple but important act of truancy.

**Video: Jasmine Cobb with Mark Anthony Neal on Left of Black**

- In this video Mark Anthony Neal interviews Jasmine Cobb, Assistant Professor in the Departments of Art, Art History, and Visual Studies, and African and African American Studies at Duke University., about her new book *Picture Freedom: Remaking Black Visuality in the Early Nineteenth Century*. Professor Cobs speaks about how this book ended up very differently from how she started the project. Orginal she was looking to study free blacks prior to the abolishment of slavery. The project ended up in it final form because all she could originally locate in archival records were caricatures of free blacks and negative hostile images disseminated by whites with the intentions of destroying the images of free blacks. Her final product is a "conversation" between these images of a writing free blacks describing their life and achievements.

**Anthony Chase to Jeremiah Hoffman, 1827, Baltimore**

-  This document is a very interesting letter from the escaped slave Anthony Chase to Jeremiah Hoffman his temporary master. After esacping bondange under the supervision of Hoffman, Chase felt the need to send a letter to clarify any misunderstandings about his motivations about escape. In the letter Chase speaks about how he has no grievances with Hoffman or his family, and even goes as far to say that he "...could of lived with you all the days of my life.." if his mistress, Susan Williams have improved his condition. He understands that his escape to freedom caused a debit to Hoffman and he intends to pay it back when he has the opportunity. Chase even goes far enough to recommend a new servant to Hoffman as Chase was only on loan to Hoffman. The end of letter implies that upon Chase's original master's death he was supposed to be free, but this was action was not completed because of his mistress. The letter concludes with Chase asking for forgiveness despite the fact that he knows he may never get it from Hoffman. 

**Runaways, Selections from the WPA Interviews**

- This document is a collection of quotes taken from the Work Progress Administration interviews with former slaves during the great depression. The narratives deal with an overarching theme of escaping slavery. It pairs nicely the first piece, because a lot of the stories illustrate the idea of truancy versus an escape to freedom. One of the stories talks about a family of slaves hiding away in a cave until the time of freedom. The pieces gives an interesting image of what running way would be like and not just in the widely understood notation of running to freedom. The language used by the former slaves is also very telling about their self-image and how the effects of slavery was still very much with them.

## Reflection ##

1. Never before reading the "I Could Not Stay There" piece had I ever thought about escape from slavery other than in the way of a full escape attempt. Truancy, the temporary or short-term escapes from slavery, never crossed my mind as a possibility in the antebellum south. Nor did I think about the inherently gendered differences in slaves ability it run away to freedom. Unfortunately this shows my level of ignorance on the subject, but images of Harriet Tubman being a conductor on the Underground Railroad, Margaret Garner, and Anna J. Cooper had me to believe that these difference did not exist. 
2. Despite not having any readings or excerpts from Jasmine Cobb's book I found this to the most interesting piece. Not because I enjoyed the interview, on the contrary I thought the interview was just not done well and I could have asked a million better questions, but because she was attempting to rewrite history and show the true story of free blacks prior to the abolish of slavery. I often think about how the actions of the Black Lives Matter movement will be remembered. I think about when I tell my grandchildren about attending marches and protest will they have been fed counterfactual details about the movement and what we stand for as an organization. Textbooks in American demonize the Black Panther Movements. They make their actions to sometimes in extreme  cases look like a form of radical terrorism. Conservative Commentators on the news talk about them as if they were thugs. Rewriting our history in a way to demonize our freedom struggle and fight for our basic rights seems to be an old trick of the white supremacy.

##Expand##

[Black Boy Joy](https://twitter.com/hashtag/blackboyjoy?lang=en) & [Black Girl Magic](https://twitter.com/hashtag/blackgirlmagic?lang=en)

In the tradition of having to tell our own stories because the white media tends to distort it these hashtags fit in very well with Jasmine Cobb's book "Picture Freedom: Remaking Black Visuality in the Early Nineteenth Century." These hashtags are being used in a way to counteract the negative stereotypes about being black in America. *#BlackGirlMagic* was created specifically to fight the negative images of black women used and showcase their achievements. *#BlackBoyJoy* I believe was made popular by Chance the Rapper and it follows in the footsteps of the *#CarefreeBlackBoy* movement in its attempt to showcase black boys as something more than the angry stereotype we are used to seeing be pushed by the media.

##Comment##
In response to Turquoise's last question for Lab Log 3. I am confused on exactly what you are asking.  Are you asking if despite the images used on social media by blacks to control their narrative whites still have more power in the way they spread images than we do? If this is the question I think that only time will tell in this case. This is why I am so curious to see how the Black Lives Matter movement will be remembered. I believe there is more than enough material out there for non-blacks and blacks in the future to see a clear image of what we are fighting for and our achievements; however someone is going to have to seek them first. I think conservative whites have very successfully pushed this narrative of us being violent unfortunately. I hope things like #BlackGirlMagic and #BlackBoyJoy can dismantle their attempts to color us in a negative light.

##Questions##
1. If there were such extreme gender differences in slaves ability to escape because of how they were organized and what jobs allowed for freedom of movement, why don't we talk about this more and commend the women who were able to escape more?
2. What images were free black creating before the abolishment of slavery. What did the artwork look like if there even was any being produced?
3. What would be the best way to control our own story? Jasmine Cobb's book is great, but in all honestly what is the actual likelihood that its going ot get into the hands of everyone that thought free blacks were very much like the negative images being passed out at the time? 
4. There is such a heavy internet focus on the images used to try and fight the narrative used against blacks. Should we be publishing these images because what happens when the internet fails? Where will the record be of our greatness?
