

# OVERVIEW:
* The Mathematics of Black Life article talks about how the “math” or the numbers of slaves who died in the Middle Passage, the number of lashings slaves received, the number of girls who were raped under slavery, and the archives of transporting the “cargo” represent how “new world blackness” dwells on these numbers as a repetition of anti-black violence and black death. The Slavery and Abolition, “I could not stay there”, Anthony Chase Runaway Letter, and WPA Interviews discuss truancy, absenteeism and runaway slaves. These gave insight into the logic, the means, and the circumstances in which slaves ran away from their captivity. The Left of Black interview discussed how Blacks did not portray themselves in visual culture. Rather, visual representations of Blacks around the time of slavery and abolition were created by angered Whites who caricaturized Blacks. 

## REFLECTION:
* The interview for Left of Black was especially impactful on my thinking of Black history. It makes sense that Blacks were not focused on creating visual representations of their history and life because they were trying to educate themselves by learning how to read and write, helping others escape slavery, or advocating for abolition. In addition, creating visual representations, at that time, would have been an expensive activity. They would have to buy the materials to paint, draw, color, cut, or photograph. These art supplies and cameras would be out of reach for newly freed slaves’ budgets. This makes me wonder how the digital age has changed those circumstances. Today, we are able to easily gain access to a computer, create a meme, take a picture, and make other digital art. I wonder how digital art would have been portrayed in the antebellum era. 

## EXPAND:
* [Link](http://www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/Perspectives_1/blacks_and_mexicans_101472.shtml)
* As I was reading the WPA interviews, I wondered how many African slaves actually made their way to Mexico. Instead, I found an article about how many Mexican-Americans contain blood from Africa because of the amount of slaves that Mexico imported as well as those that escaped from Texas. I attached a link to an article about celebrities featured on the PBS Series “Faces of America”. Celebrities such as George Lopez and Eva Longoria discovered that they contained 3-4 percent of African ancestry. This is interesting because Black people today would not be surprised if they had ancestors who were slaves, yet people from other races would not even consider they came from slaves. 
# COMMENT:
Response to JB’s question: Ernestine and Cato are both more powerful slaves in terms of social hierarchy. Are these roles to be desired or should viewers reject these characters as sell outs/conformists? Cato admits that he wants to run, so is being a house slave all the desirable if you are still not the master of your own condition?
*	I believe these characters are not conformists or sell outs. As Ernestine stated in the first episode, she tries very hard to live the most comfortable and peaceful life she can in the “Big House”. This does not necessarily mean she is okay with the lifestyle she has been born into nor does she justify the lifestyle that is obviously cruel and unfair to her and her family. For characters like Cato and Ernestine, being a house slave has been a means of survival. They know that they will never be the “master of [their] own condition” so they must do the best they can do to live the smoothest life as possible. Under another perspective you could say that Ernestine and Cato – as characters who made do with what they were given – actually are the strongest out of all the characters. They endure the mental and physical damages of knowing and accepting your inferiority of being a slave. Unlike other slaves described in the show and in our readings, they do not adamantly attempt to escape. 

# QUESTION:
*	In the Left of Black video I was unsure what “Garretimes” (sp?) meant? Is it another name for slavery? Antebellum?
*	In the WPA Interviews, many of the stories were about slaves who hid in the woods instead of running away to the North or Mexico. Did other slaves feel resentment for those who left? Or, was it more feelings of jealousy because they, too, wanted to run away?
*	How did Anthony Chase obtain the letter of his previous master that freed him from slavery upon his master’s death? Ho w often did these instances happen?
*	Were there communities made up of ex-slaves around the South? How did ex-slaves integrate into life outside of plantation life?


